--- Page 1 ---
Basic Ship Theory

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 2 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 3 ---
Basic Ship Theory

K.J. Rawson
MSc, DEng, FEng, RCNC, FRINA, WhSch

E.C. Tupper
BSc, CEng, RCNC, FRINA, WhSch

Fifth edition
Volume 1
Chapters 1 to 9

Hydrostatics and Strength

UTTERWORTH
EItnN EM N N

OXFORD AUCKLAND BOSTON JOHANNESBURG MELBOURNE NEW DELHI

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 4 ---
Butterworth-Heinemann

Linacre House, Jordan Hill, Oxford OX2 8DP

225 Wildwood Avenue, Woburn, MA 01801-2041

A division of Reed Educational and Professional Publishing Ltd

RA member of the Reed Elsevier ple group

First published by Longman Group Limited 1968
Second edition 1976 (in two volumes)

Third edition 1983

Fourth edition 1994

Fifth edition 2001

© K.J. Rawson and E.C. Tupper 2001

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in

any material form (including photocopying or storing in any medium by
electronic means and whether or not transiently or incidentally to some
other use of this publication) without the written permi n of the
copyright holder except in accordance with the provisions of the Copyright,
Designs and Patents Act 1988 or under the terms of a licence issued by the
Copyright Licensing Agency Ltd, 90 Tottenham Court Road, London,
England WIP OLP. Applications for the copyright holder’s written
permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed

to the publishers

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
Rawson, K.J. (Kenneth John), 1926—
Basic ship theory. — Sth ed.
Vol. 1, ch. 1-9: Hydrostatics and strength K.J. Rawson,
E.C. Tupper
1. Naval architecture 2. Shipbuilding
I. Title II. Tupper, E.C. (Eric Charles), 1928-
623.81

Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data
Rawson, K.J.
Basic ship theory/K.J. Rawson, E.C. Tupper. — Sth ed.
p. cm.
Contents: v.1. Hydrostatics and strength — v.2. Ship dynamics and design.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-7506-5396-5 (v.1: alk. paper) — ISBN 0-7506-5397-3 (v.2: alk. paper)
1. Naval architecture I. Tupper, E.C. II. Title.

VM156 .R37 2001
623.8'1-de21 2001037513

ISBN 0 7506 5396 5

For information on all Butterworth-Heinemann
publications visit our website at www.bh.com

Typeset in India at Integra Software Services Pvt Ltd,
Pondicherry, India 605005; www. integra-india.com

LANT A
TREE

FOR EVERY TITLE THAT WE PUBLISH, BUTTERWORTHC-HEINENANN,
WILL PAY FOR BTCY TO PLANT AND CARE FOR A TREE,


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 5 ---
dedeaeeeeeeeeseeneaaes Introduction

Symbals.and.namenclature

.1.Art.orscience?
1..1. Authorities

beteteeee teense 2.Some tools

seve 2.1. Basic. geometric.concepts
2.2 Praperties. of irregular shapes
2.3. Approximate. integration
...2.4.Computers

2.5 Appriximate farmulae.and rules
aeaeeaeeeaeeeeeaeeeaeeneeeaeens 2.6.Statistics
... 2.7, Warked.examples
...2.8.Problems

naceeeseecenesseeeneed 3 Flatation.and trim
feces eeeee senna seneeeeeeeeeeeees 3.1. Flotation

3.2 Hydrostatic data
3.3. Worked.examples
ceceeeeecee sees eeseeeeeeeeeeaee 3.4.Problems

seceseseatesteseanees 4.Stability

..4.1. Initial stability
..4.2.Complete stability
ceeteaneeeeeaeseaneenseaeeeed 4.3.Dynamical stability

seseeeseeateeateeseened 4.4. Stability.assessment
ceceeeeecee sees eeseeeeeeeeeeaee 4.5.Problems

...5.Hazards.and.pratection
ceeeeeeeaneneeenee §.1.Floading.and collision
vee eeeeeeetteeeetaeeees 5.2.Safety.of.life at sea
fete eeeeeeeeeeneeneeeeeneee 6.3 Other hazards

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 6 ---
§.4.Abnormal waves
oe ...5.5.Environmental pollution
ceceeeeecee sees eeseeeeeeeeeeaee 5.6.Problems

eteaeeeeeeneeeeeeaees 6.The. ship girder

6.1. The. standard.calculation
... 6.2. Material.considerations
dete eeeeeeeeteseeeeeeeeeeeeed 4.3.Conclusions
ceceeeeecee sees eeseeeeeeeeeeaee 6.4.Problems

7 Structural design.and.analysis
caneeeeaeeeaeeseeaeeneeeeeeaes 7..1..Stiffened plating
leeeeeeaeeeeeeenseaeeeeseanenees 7.2.Panels.of plating
eee eeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeees 7.3, Frameworks

w. 14, Finite.element.techniques

7.5 Realistic assessment of structral.elements

ceeeeeeeeeeeeeseaeeeeeenseaaes 7.6 Fittings
ceceeeeecee sees eeseeeeeeeeeeaee 7.7.Problems

.8 Launching.and.docking
aeaeeaeeeaeeneeeaeeeaeeeeeaeens 8.1.Launching
ceeeeeeeeeeeeeseaeeeeeeeesenaes 8.2 Docking
ceseeeeeeaeseseeeaseaneeaneneees 8.3.Problems

9 The ship environment and human.factors
9.1 The external environment. The sea

cece tees eee eeseneeeeneeeneaee 9.2 Waves
feces eeeee tees eeeeeeeeeeeee 9.3 Climate
...9.4. Physical limitations
9.5 .The.internal.environment
..9.6 Motions
fetes eeeaeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeae 9.7 The air
eeaeeeneeaeseaneeeeseeeateneees 9.8 Lighting

deeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenaees 9.9. Vibration.and noise


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 7 ---
9.10.Human factors
...9.1.1.Problems

be eetetneeeenaeeeeaes Bibliagraphy

detteeteteeeees Answers.to.problems

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 8 ---
Foreword to the fifth edition

Over the last quarter of the last century there were many changes in the
maritime scene. Ships may now be much larger; their speeds are generally
higher; the crews have become drastically reduced; there are many different
types (including hovercraft, multi-hull designs and so on); much quicker and
more accurate assessments of stability, strength, manoeuvring, motions and
powering are possible using complex computer programs; on-board computer
systems help the operators; ferries carry many more vehicles and passengers;
and so the list goes on. However, the fundamental concepts of naval architec-
ture, which the authors set out when Basic Ship Theory was first published,
remain as valid as ever.

As with many other branches of engineering, quite rapid advances have been
made in ship design, production and operation. Many advances relate to the
effectiveness (in terms of money, manpower and time) with which older proced-
ures or methods can be accomplished. This is largely due to the greater
efficiency and lower cost of modern computers and proliferation of information
available. Other advances are related to our fundamental understanding of
naval architecture and the environment in which ships operate. These tend to
be associated with the more advanced aspects of the subject: more complex
programs for analysing structures, for example, which are not appropriate to a
basic text book.

The naval architect is affected not only by changes in technology but also by
changes in society itself. Fashions change as do the concerns of the public, often
stimulated by the press. Some tragic losses in the last few years of the twentieth
century brought increased public concern for the safety of ships and those
sailing in them, both passengers and crew. It must be recognized, of course,
hat increased safety usually means more cost so that a conflict between money
and safety is to be expected. In spite of steps taken as a result of these
experiences, there are, sadly, still many losses of ships, some quite large and
some involving significant loss of life. It remains important, therefore, to strive
o improve still further the safety of ships and protection of the environment.
Steady, if somewhat slow, progress is being made by the national and interna-
ional bodies concerned. Public concern for the environment impacts upon ship
design and operation. Thus, tankers must be designed to reduce the risk of oil
spillage and more dangerous cargoes must receive special attention to protect
he public and nature. Respect for the environment including discharges into
he sea is an important aspect of defining risk through accident or irresponsible
usage.

A lot of information is now available on the Internet, including results of
much research. Taking the Royal Institution of Naval Architects as an example

xi

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 9 ---
xii Foreword to the fifth edition

of a learned society, its website makes available summaries of technical papers
and enables members to join in the discussions of its technical groups. Other
data is available in a compact form on CD-rom. Clearly anything that improves
the amount and/or quality of information available to the naval architect is to
be welcomed. However, it is considered that, for the present at any rate, there
remains a need for basic text books. The two are complementary. A basic
understanding of the subject is needed before information from the Internet
can be used intelligently. In this edition we have maintained the objective of
conveying principles and understanding to help student and practitioner in
their work.

The authors have again been in a slight dilemma in deciding just how far to
go in the subjects of each chapter. It is tempting to load the books with theories
which have become more and more advanced. What has been done is to
provide a glimpse into developments and advanced work with which students
and practitioners must become familiar. Towards the end of each chapter a
section giving an outline of how matters are developing has been included
which will help to lead students, with the aid of the Internet, to all relevant
references. Some web site addresses have also been given.

It must be appreciated that standards change continually, as do the titles of
organizations. Every attempt has been made to include the latest at the time of
writing but the reader should always check source documents to see whether
they still apply in detail at the time they are to be used. What the reader can rely
on is that the principles underlying such standards will still be relevant.

2001 KJR ECT

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 10 ---
Acknowledgements

The authors have deliberately refrained from quoting a large number of refer-
ences. However, we wish to acknowledge the contributions of many practi-
tioners and research workers to our understanding of naval architecture, upon
whose work we have drawn. Many will be well known to any student of
engineering. Those early engineers in the field who set the fundamentals of
the subject, such as Bernoulli, Reynolds, the Froudes, Taylor, Timoshenko,
Southwell and Simpson, are mentioned in the text because their names are
synonymous with sections of naval architecture.

Others have developed our understanding, with more precise and compre-
hensive methods and theories as technology has advanced and the ability to
carry out complex computations improved. Some notable workers are not
quoted as their work has been too advanced for a book of this nature.

We are indebted to a number of organizations which have allowed us to draw
upon their publications, transactions, journals and conference proceedings.
This has enabled us to illustrate and quantify some of the phenomena dis-
cussed. These include the learned societies, such as the Royal Institution of
Naval Architects and the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers;
research establishments, such as the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency,
the Taylor Model Basin, British Maritime Technology and MARIN; the
classification societies; and Government departments such as the Ministry of
Defence and the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions;
publications such as those of the International Maritime Organisation and the
International Towing Tank Conferences.

xiii

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 11 ---
Introduction

In their young days the authors performed the calculations outlined in this
work manually aided only by slide rule and, luxuriously, calculators. The
arduous nature of such endeavours detracted from the creative aspects and
affected the enjoyment of designing ships. Today, while it would be possible,
such prolonged calculation is unthinkable because the chores have been
removed to the care of the computer, which has greatly enriched the design
process by giving time for reflection, trial and innovation, allowing the effects of
changes to be examined rapidly.

It would be equally nonsensical to plunge into computer manipulation with-
out knowledge of the basic theories, their strengths and limitations, which allow
judgement to be quantified and interactions to be acknowledged. A simple
change in dimensions of an embryo ship, for example, will affect flotation,
stability, protection, powering, strength, manoeuvring and many sub-systems
within, that affect a land architect to much less an extent. For this reason, the
authors have decided to leave computer system design to those qualified to
provide such important tools and to ensure that the student recognizes the
fundamental theory on which they are based so that he or she may understand
what consequences the designer’s actions will have, as they feel their way
towards the best solution to an owner’s economic aims or military demands.

Manipulation of the elements of a ship is greatly strengthened by such a ‘feel’
and experience provided by personal involvement. Virtually every ship’s char-
acteristic and system affects every other ship so that some form of holistic
approach is essential.

A crude representation of the process of creating a ship is outlined in the
figure.

Safety

Economics of trade

or
a Military objective
Architecture

Volume ->— Hull shape} >— Weight}

Hi

Resistance & Propulsion Dimensions

Z aN it Production]
Manoeuvring

Choice of machinery Flotation & stability

\

Design

\Structure|

xiv

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 12 ---
Introduction xv

This is, of course, only a beginning. Moreover, the arrows should really be
pointing in both directions; for example, the choice of machinery to serve speed
and endurance reflects back on the volume required and the architecture of the
ship which affects safety and structure. And so on. Quantification of the
changes is effected by the choice of suitable computer programs. Downstream
of this process lies design of systems to support each function but this, for the
moment, is enough to distinguish between knowledge and application.

The authors have had to limit their work to presentation of the fundamentals
of naval architecture and would expect readers to adopt whatever computer
systems are available to them with a sound knowledge of their basis and
railties. The sequence of the chapters which follow has been chosen to build
nowledge in a logical progression. The first thirteen chapters address elements
of ship response to the environments likely to be met; Chapter 14 adds some of
he major systems needed within the ship and Chapter 15 provides some
discipline to the design process. The final chapter reflects upon some particular
ship types showing how the application of the same general principles can lead
o significantly different responses to an owner’s needs. A few worked examples
are included to demonstrate that there is real purpose in understanding theoret-
ical naval architecture.

The opportunity, afforded by the publication of a fifth edition, has been
aken to extend the use of SI units throughout. The relationships between them
and the old Imperial units, however, have been retained in the Introduction to
assist those who have to deal with older ships whose particulars remain in the
old units.

Care has been taken to avoid duplicating, as far as is possible, work that
students will cover in other parts of the course; indeed, it is necessary to assume
that knowledge in all subjects advances with progress through the book. The
authors have tried to stimulate and hold the interest of students by careful
arrangement of subject matter. Chapter 1 and the opening paragraphs of each
succeeding chapter have been presented in somewhat lyrical terms in the hope
that they convey to students some of the enthusiasm which the authors them-
selves feel for this fascinating subject. Naval architects need never fear that they
will, during their careers, have to face the same problems, day after day. They
will experience as wide a variety of sciences as are touched upon by any
profession.

Before embarking on the book proper, it is necessary to comment on the
units employed.

UNITS

In May 1965, the UK Government, in common with other governments,
announced that Industry should move to the use of the metric system. At the
same time, a rationalized set of metric units has been adopted internationally,
following endorsement by the International Organization for Standardization
using the Systéme International d’Unités (SI).

The adoption of SI units has been patchy in many countries while some have
yet to change from their traditional positions.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 13 ---
xvi Introduction

In the following notes, the SI system of units is presented briefly; a fuller
treatment appears in British Standard 5555. This book is written using SI units.

The SI is a rationalized selection of units in the metric system. It is a coherent
system, i.e. the product or quotient of any two unit quantities in the system is
the unit of the resultant quantity. The basic units are as follows:

Quantity Name of unit — Unit symbol
Length metre m

Mass kilogramme kg

Time second s

Electric current ampere A
Thermodynamic temperature kelvin K
Luminous intensity candela cd

Amount of substance mole mol

Plane angle radian rad

Solid angle steradian sr

Special names have been adopted for some of the derived SI units and these
are listed below together with their unit symbols:

Physical quantity SI unit Unit symbol
Force newton N= kg m/s?
Work, energy joule J=Nm
Power watt
Electric charge coulomb
Electric potential volt
Electric capacitance farad
Electric resistance ohm
Frequency hertz
Tlluminance lux
Self inductance henry
Luminous flux lumen
Pressure, stress pascal
megapascal
Electrical conductance _ siemens
Magnetic flux weber
Magnetic flux density tesla

The following two tables list other derived units and the equivalent values of

some UK units, respectively:

Physical quantity SI unit Unit symbol
Area square metre m?

Volume cubic metre m>

Density kilogramme per cubic metre kg/m?
Velocity metre per second m/s
Angular velocity radian per second rad/s
Acceleration metre per second squared m/s”

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 14 ---
Angular acceleration
Pressure, stress
Surface tension
Dynamic viscosity
Kinematic viscosity
Thermal conductivity

radian per second squared
newton per square metre
newton per metre

newton second per metre squared
metre squared per second
watt per metre kelvin

Introduction — xvii

rad/s?
N/m?
N/m
Ns/m?
m?/s
W/(mK)

Quantity Imperial unit Equivalent SI units
Length lyd 0.9144m
Ift 0.3048 m
lin 0.0254m
1 mile 1609.344m
1 nautical mile 1853.18m
(UK)
1 nautical mile 1852m
(International)
Area lin? 645.16 x 10-6 m?
re 0.092903 m2
1 yd? 0.836127 m?
1 mile” 2.58999 x 10° m?
Volume lin? 16.3871 x 10-6 m3
if 0.0283168 m3
1 UK gal 0.004546092 m3 = 4.546092 litres
Velocity 1 ft/s 0.3048 m/s
I mile/hr 0.44704 m/s ; 1.60934 km/hr
I knot (UK) 0.51477 m/s; 1.85318 km/hr

Standard acceleration, g
Mass

Mass density
Force

Pressure

Stress

Energy

Power

Temperature

1 knot (International)

32.174 ft/s?
11b

lton

1 1b/in?
11b/ft3

1 pdl

Llbf

1 Ibf/in?

1 tonf /in?

1 ft pdl
1 ftlbf
leal
1 Btu

lhp

1 Rankine unit
1 Fahrenheit unit

0.51444 m/s; 1.852 km/hr

9.80665 m/s?
0.45359237 kg
1016.05 kg = 1.01605 tonnes

27.6799 x 10° kg/m?
16.0185 kg/m?

0.138255N
4.44822N

6894.76 N/m? 0.0689476 bars

15.4443 x 10° N/m?
15.443 MPa or N/mm?

0.0421401 J
1.35582J
4.1868 J
1055.06 J

745.700 W

5/9 Kelvin unit
5/9 Celsius unit

Note that, while multiples of the denominators are preferred, the engineering
industry has generally adopted N/mm? for stress instead of MN/m? which has,
of course, the same numerical value and are the same as MPa.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 15 ---
xviii Introduction

Prefixes to denote multiples and sub-multiples to be affixed to the names of

units are:
Factor by which the unit is multiplied — Prefix Symbol
1000 000.000 000 = 10! tera T
1.000.000 000 = 10° giga G
1.000000 = 10° mega M
1000 = 103 kilo k
100 = 10? hecto oh
10=10! deca da
0.1=107! deci d
0.01= 10°? centi oc
0.001 = 10-3 milli m
0.000001 = 10-° micro
0.000 000 001 = 10-° nano on
0.000 000 000 001 = 10-1 pico p
0.000 000 000 000 001 = 10-!5 femto f
0.000 000 000 000 000 001 = 10-!8 atto a

We list, finally, some preferred metric values (values preferred for density of
fresh and salt water are based on a temperature of 15°C (59°F)).

Item Accepted Imperial Direct metric Preferred SI value
figure equivalent
Gravity, g 32.17 ft/s? 9.80665 m/s 9.807 m/s?
Mass density 64 1b/ft? 1.0252 tonne/m* 1.025 tonne/m*
salt water 35 ft /ton 0.9754 m3 /tonne 0.975 m3 /tonne
Mass density 62.2 Ib/fe 0.9964 tonne/m? 1.0 tonne/m?*
fresh water 36 ft* /ton 1.0033 m3 /tonne 1.0m?/tonne
Young’s modulus E (steel) 13,500tonf/in? 2.0855 x 107 N/em?__ 209 GN/m? or GPa
Atmospheric pressure 14.7 Ibf /in? 101,353 N/m? 10° N/m? or Pa
10.1353 N/cm? or 1.0 bar
A .
TPI (salt water) rer tonf/in 1.025 Ay(tonnef/m) 1.025 Aytonnef/m
Ay(fP) Ay(m?)
NPC 100.52 Awenjem)
NPM Ay(m?) 10,052 Ay(N/m) 104 4,,(N/m)

MCT 1” (salt water)
(Units of tonf and feet)
One metre trim moment,

. t f
(A in MN or OUR ™
m

Force displacement A

Mass displacement ©

Weight density:
Salt water
Fresh water

Specific volume:
Salt water
Fresh water

AGM tonf ft
12L in

A in tonnef)

J tonf

lton

AGM, (MN m
L m

1.01605 tonnef
9964.02N

1.01605 tonne

AGM; (ws *)

L m
1.016 tonnef
9964N

1.016 tonne

0.01 MN/m?
0.0098 MN/m

99.5m3/MN
102.0m3/MN

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 16 ---
Introduction xix

Of particular significance to the naval architect are the units used for dis-
placement, density and stress. The force displacement A, under the SI scheme
must be expressed in terms of newtons. In practice the meganewton (MN) is a
more convenient unit and 1 MN is approximately equivalent to 100 tonf (100.44
more exactly). The authors have additionally introduced the tonnef (and,
correspondingly, the tonne for mass measurement) as explained more fully in
Chapter 3.

EXAMPLES

A number of worked examples has been included in the text of most chapters to
illustrate the application of the principles enunciated therein. Some are rela-
tively short but others involve lengthy computations. They have been deliber-
ately chosen to help educate the student in the subject of naval architecture, and
the authors have not been unduly influenced by the thought that examination
questions often involve about 30 minutes’ work.

In the problems set at the end of each chapter, the aim has been adequately to
cover the subject matter, avoiding, as far as possible, examples involving mere
arithmetic substitution in standard formulae.

REFERENCES AND THE INTERNET

References for each chapter are given in a Bibliography at the end of each
volume with a list of works for general reading. Because a lot of useful
information is to be found these days on the Internet, some relevant web sites
are quoted at the end of the Bibliography.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 17 ---
Symbols and nomenclature

GENERAL

SR ym OwAS
a

tw. Gw

Xo. Yo» Z0

qJExXORVE DSW.

linear acceleration

area in general

breadth in general

diameter in general

energy in general

force in general

acceleration due to gravity

depth or pressure head in general

height of wave, crest to trough

total head, Bernoulli

length in general

wave-length

mass

rate of revolution

pressure intensity

vapour pressure of water

ambient pressure at infinity

power in general

stagnation pressure

rate of flow

radius in general

length along path

time in general

temperature in general

period of time for a complete cycle

reciprocal weight density, specific volume,

velocity components in direction of x-, y-, z-axes

linear velocity

weight density

weight in general

body axes and Cartesian co-ordinates
Right-hand system fixed in the body, z-axis vertically down,
x-axis forward.
Origin at c.g.

fixed axes
Right-hand orthogonal system nominally fixed in space,

xis vertically down, xo-axis in the general direction of the initial motion.

angular acceleration

specific gravity

circulation

thickness of boundary layer in general

angle of pitch

coefficient of dynamic viscosity

coefficient of kinematic viscosity

mass density

angle of roll, heel or list

angle of yaw

angular velocity or circular frequency

volume in general

XX

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 18 ---
Symbols and nomenclature

GEOMETRY OF SHIP

Am
Aw
Ay
B
BM
Cp
Cu
Cp
Cvp

midship section area

waterplane area

maximum transverse section area
beam or moulded breadth
metacentre above centre of buoyancy
block coefficient

midship section coefficient
longitudinal prismatic coefficient
vertical prismatic coefficient
coefficient of fineness of waterplane
depth of ship

freeboard

transverse metacentric height
longitudinal metacentric height
longitudinal moment of inertia of waterplane about CF
polar moment of inertia

transverse moment of inertia

length of ship—generally between perps
length overall

length between perps

length of waterline in general

wetted surface

draught

displacement force

scale ratio—ship/model dimension
displacement volume

displacement mass

PROPELLER GEOMETRY

Ap
AE
Ao
Ap

SONTRVSPOIIS

developed blade area
expanded area

disc area

projected blade area

span of aerofoil or hydrofoil
chord length

boss or hub diameter
diameter of propeller

camber

propeller pitch in general
propeller radius

thickness of aerofoil

number of blades of propeller
angle of attack

pitch angle of screw propeller

RESISTANCE AND PROPULSION

a

Cb
CL
Cr

Qn

resistance augment fraction
drag coeff.

lift coeff.

specific total resistance coeff.
specific wave-making resistance coeff.
drag force

Froude number

idle resistance

advance number of propeller
torque coeff.

thrust coeff.

lift force

Xxi

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 19 ---
xxii Symbols

Po
Pe

Ss
Sc(w), So(w), ete.
Se(w,p), Sow),
etc.

T

Te

T:

To

Ts

Yacw)

Yose(w)

Yyc(w)

6

OR

€

¢

and nomenclature

delivered power at propeller
effective power

indicated power

shaft power

thrust power

torque

resistance in general

Reynolds number

frictional resistance

residuary resistance

total resistance

wave-making resistance
apparent slip ratio

thrust deduction fraction
thrust

velocity of a fluid

velocity of an undisturbed flow
speed of ship

speed of advance of propeller
Taylor wake fraction in general
Froude wake fraction

Weber number

appendage scale effect factor
advance angle of a propeller blade section
Taylor’s advance coeff.
efficiency in general

propeller efficiency behind ship
quasi propulsive coefficient
hull eff.

propeller eff. in open water
relative rotative efficiency
cavitation number

wave velocity
frequency
frequency of encounter
real moments of inertia
real products of inertia
radius of gyration
spectrum moment where n is an integer
horizontal wave bending moment
torsional wave bending moment
vertical wave bending moment
relative vertical motion of bow with respect to wave surface
one-dimensional spectral density
two-dimensional spectral

density
wave period
period of encounter
natural period in smooth water for heaving
natural period in smooth water for pitching
natural period in smooth water for rolling
response amplitude operator—pitch
response amplitude operator—roll
response amplitude operator—yaw
leeway or drift angle
rudder angle
phase angle between any two harmonic motions
instantaneous wave elevation

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 20 ---
Symbols and nomenclature

Xxili

GA wave amplitude

ow wave height, crest to trough

0 pitch angle

On pitch amplitude

K wave number

WE frequency of encounter

A tuning factor
MANOEUVRABILITY

Ac area under cut-up

AR area of rudder

b span of hydrofoil

c chord of hydrofoil

K, M,N moment components on body relative to body axes
oO origin of body axes

Pat components of angular velocity relative to body axes
X,Y, Z force components on body

a angle of attack

B drift angle

OR rudder angle

x heading angle

we steady rate of turn

STRENGTH

a length of plate

b breadth of plate

Cc modulus of rigidity

€ linear strain

E modulus of elasticity, Young’s modulus
o direct stress

gy yield stress

g acceleration due to gravity

T planar second moment of area

J polar second moment of area

i stress concentration factor

k radius of gyration

K bulk modulus

/ length of member

L length

M bending moment

My plastic moment

Map bending moment at A in member AB
m mass

P direct load, externally applied

Pr Euler collapse load

Pp distributed direct load (area distribution), pressure
p distributed direct load (line distribution)
T shear stress

r radius

Ss internal shear force

Ss distance along a curve

T applied torque

t thickness, time

U strain energy

Ww weight, external load

y lever in bending

6 deflection, permanent set, elemental (when associated with element of breadth, e.g. 6b)
p mass density

v Poisson’s ratio

0 slope

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 21 ---
xxiv Symbols and nomenclature

NOTES

(a) A distance between two points is represented by a bar over the letters defining the two points,
e.g. GM is the distance between G and M.

(b) When a quantity is to be expressed in non-dimensional form it is denoted by the use of the
prime’. Unless otherwise specified, the non-dimensionalizing factor is a function of p, L and V,
eg. m =m/4pL>,x' =x/4pL?V7,L' = L/4pLV?.

(c) A lower case subscript is used to denote the denominator of a partial derivative, e.g.
Y, = OY /du.

(d) For derivatives with respect to time the dot notation is used, e.g. x = dx/d@.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 22 ---
1 Art or science?

Many thousands of years ago when people became intelligent and adventurous,
hose tribes who lived near the sea ventured on to it. They built rafts or hollowed
out tree trunks and soon experienced the thrill of moving across the water,
propelled by tide or wind or device. They experienced, too, the first sea disasters;
heir boats sank or broke, capsized or rotted and lives were lost. It was natural that
hose builders of boats which were adjudged more successful than others, received
he acclaim of their fellows and were soon regarded as craftsmen. The intel-
igent craftsman observed perhaps, that capsizing was less frequent when using
wo trunks joined together or when an outrigger was fixed, or that it could be
manoeuvred better with a rudder in a suitable position. The tools were trial and
error and the stimulus was pride. He was the first naval architect.

The craftsmen’s expertise developed as it was passed down the generations:
he Greeks built their triremes and the Romans their galleys; the Vikings
produced their beautiful craft to carry soldiers through heavy seas and on to
he beaches. Several hundred years later, the craftsmen were designing and
building great square rigged ships for trade and war and relying still on know-
ledge passed down through the generations and guarded by extreme secrecy.
Still, they learned by trial and error because they had as yet no other tools and
he disasters at sea persisted.

The need for a scientific approach must have been felt many hundreds of
years before it was possible and it was not possible until relatively recently,
despite the corner stone laid by Archimedes two thousand years ago. Until the
middle of the eighteenth century the design and building of ships was wholly a
craft and it was not, until the second half of the nineteenth century that science
affected ships appreciably.

Isaac Newton and other great mathematicians of the seventeenth century laid
the foundations for so many sciences and naval architecture was no exception.
Without any doubt, however, the father of naval architecture was Pierre
Bouguer who published in 1746, Traité du Navire. In his book, Bouguer laid
the foundations of many aspects of naval architecture which were developed later
in the eighteenth century by Bernoulli, Euler and Santacilla. Lagrange and many
others made contributions but the other outstanding figure of that century was
the Swede, Frederick Chapman who pioneered work on ship resistance which
led up to the great work of William Froude a hundred years later. A scientific
approach to naval architecture was encouraged more on the continent than in
Britain where it remained until the 1850s, a craft surrounded by pride and
secrecy. On 19 May 1666, Samuel Pepys wrote of a Mr Deane:

And then he fell to explain to me his manner of casting the draught of
water which a ship will draw before-hand; which is a secret the King and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 23 ---
2 Basic ship theory

all admire in him, and he is the first that hath come to any certainty before-
hand of foretelling the draught of water of a ship before she be launched.

The second half of the nineteenth century, however, produced Scott Russell,
Rankine and Froude and the development of the science, and dissemination of
knowledge in Britain was rapid.

NAVAL ARCHITECTURE TODAY

It would be quite wrong to say that the art and craft built up over many
thousands of years has been wholly replaced by a science. The need for a
scientific approach was felt, first, because the art had proved inadequate to
halt the disasters at sea or to guarantee the merchant that he or she was getting
the best value for their money. Science has contributed much to alleviate these
shortcomings but it continues to require the injection of experience of success-
ful practice. Science produces the correct basis for comparison of ships but the
exact value of the criteria which determine their performances must, as in other
branches of engineering, continue to be dictated by previous successful practice,
i.e. like most engineering, this is largely a comparative science. Where the
scientific tool is less precise than one could wish, it must be heavily overlaid
with craft; where a precise tool is developed, the craft must be discarded.
Because complex problems encourage dogma, this has not always been easy.

The question, ‘Art or Science?’ is therefore loaded since it presupposes a
choice. Naval architecture is art and science.

Basically, naval architecture is concerned with ship safety, ship performance
and ship geometry, although these are not exclusive divisions.

With ship safety, the naval architect is concerned that the ship does not cap-
size in a seaway, or when damaged or even when maltreated. It is necessary to
ensure that the ship is sufficiently strong so that it does not break up or fracture
locally to let the water in. The crew must be assured that they have a good
chance of survival if the ship does let water in through accident or enemy action.

The performance of the ship is dictated by the needs of trade or war. The
required amount of cargo must be carried to the places which the owner
specifies in the right condition and in the most economical manner; the warship
must carry the maximum hitting power of the right sort and an efficient crew to
the remote parts of the world. Size, tonnage, deadweight, endurance, speed, life,
resistance, methods of propulsion, manoeuvrability and many other features
must be matched to provide the right primary performance at the right cost.
Over 90 per cent of the world’s trade is still carried by sea.

Ship geometry concerns the correct interrelation of compartments which the
architect of a house considers on a smaller scale. In an aircraft carrier, the naval
architect has 2000 rooms to relate, one with another, and must provide up to
fifty different piping and ducting systems to all parts of the ship. It is necessary
to provide comfort for the crew and facilities to enable each member to perform
his or her correct function. The ship must load and unload in harbour with the
utmost speed and perhaps replenish at sea. The architecture of the ship must be
such that it can be economically built, and aesthetically pleasing. The naval


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 24 ---
Art or science? 3

architect is being held increasingly responsible for ensuring that the environ-
mental impact of the product is minimal both in normal operation and follow-
ing any foreseeable accident. There is a duty to the public at large for the safety
of marine transport. In common with other professionals the naval architect is
expected to abide by a stringent code of conduct.

It must be clear that naval architecture involves complex compromises of
many of these features. The art is, perhaps, the blending in the right pro-
portions. There can be few other pursuits which draw on such a variety of
sciences to blend them into an acceptable whole. There can be few pursuits as
ascinating.

SHIPS

Ships are designed to meet the requirements of owners or of war and their
eatures are dictated by these requirements. The purpose of a merchant ship has
been described as conveying passengers or cargo from one port to another in
he most efficient manner. This was interpreted by the owners of Cutty Sark as
he conveyance of relatively small quantities of tea in the shortest possible time,
because this was what the tea market demanded at that time. The market might
well have required twice the quantity of tea per voyage in a voyage of twice the
length of time, when a fundamentally different design of ship would have
resulted. The economics of any particular market have a profound effect on
merchant ship design. Thus, the change in the oil market following the second
world war resulted in the disappearance of the 12,000 tonf deadweight tankers
and the appearance of the 400,000 tonf deadweight supertankers. The econom-
ics of the trading of the ship itself have an effect on its design; the desire, for
example, for small tonnage (and therefore small harbour dues) with large
cargo-carrying capacity brought about the three island and shelter deck ships
where cargo could be stowed in spaces not counted towards the tonnage on
which insurance rates and harbour dues were based. Such trends have not
always been compatible with safety and requirements of safety now also vitally
influence ship design. Specialized demands of trade have produced the great
passenger liners and bulk carriers, the natural-gas carriers, the trawlers and
many other interesting ships. Indeed, the trend is towards more and more
specialization in merchant ship design (see Chapter 16).

Specialization applies equally to warships. Basically, the warship is designed
© meet a country’s defence policy. Because the design and building of warships
akes several years, it is an advantage if a particular defence policy persists for
at least ten years and the task of long term defence planning is an onerous and
responsible one. The Defence Staff interprets the general Government policy
into the needs for meeting particular threats in particular parts of the world and
he scientists and technologists produce weapons for defensive and offensive
use. The naval architect then designs ships to carry the weapons and the men to
use them to the correct part of the world. Thus, nations like Britain and the
USA with commitments the other side of the world, would be expected to
expend more of the available space in their ships on facilities for getting the
weapons and crew in a satisfactory state to a remote, perhaps hot, area than


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 25 ---
4 Basic ship theory

a nation which expects to make short harrying excursions from its home ports.
It is important, therefore, to regard the ship as a complete weapon system and
weapon and ship designers must work in the closest possible contact.

Nowhere, probably, was this more important than in the aircraft carrier. The
type of aircraft carried so vitally affects an aircraft carrier that the ship is
virtually designed around it; only by exceeding all the minimum demands of
an aircraft and producing monster carriers, can any appreciable degree of
flexibility be introduced. The guided missile destroyer results directly from the
Defence Staff’s assessment of likely enemy aircraft and guided weapons and
their concept of how and where they would be used; submarine design is
profoundly affected by diving depth and weapon systems which are determined
by offensive and defensive considerations. The invention of the torpedo led to
the motor torpedo boat which in turn led to the torpedo boat destroyer; the
submarine, as an alternative carrier of the torpedo, led to the design of the anti-
submarine frigate; the missile carrying nuclear submarine led to the hunter
killer nuclear submarine. Thus, the particular demand of war, as is natural,
produces a particular warship.

Particular demands of the sea have resulted in many other interesting and
important ships: the self-righting lifeboats, surface effect vessels, container
ships, cargo drones, hydrofoil craft and a host of others. All are governed by
the basic rules and tools of naval architecture which this book seeks to explore.
Precision in the use of these tools must continue to be inspired by knowledge of
sea disasters; Liberty ships of the second world war, the loss of the Royal
George, the loss of HMS Captain, and the loss of the Vasa:

In 1628, the Vasa set out on a maiden voyage which lasted little more than
two hours. She sank in good weather through capsizing while still in view of
the people of Stockholm.

That disasters remain an influence upon design and operation has been
tragically illustrated by the losses of the Herald of Free Enterprise and Estonia
in the 1990s, while ferry losses continue at an alarming rate, often in nations
which cannot afford the level of safety that they would like.

Authorities
CLASSIFICATION SOCIETIES

The authorities with the most profound influence on shipbuilding, merchant
ship design and ship safety are the classification societies. Among the most
dominant are Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, det Norske Veritas, the American
Bureau of Shipping, Bureau Veritas, Registro Italiano, Germanische Lloyd and
Nippon Kaiji Kyokai. These meet to discuss standards under the auspices of
the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS).

It is odd that the two most influential bodies in the shipbuilding and shipping
industries should both derive their names from the same owner of a coffee shop,
Edward Lloyd, at the end of the seventeenth century. Yet the two organizations

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 26 ---
Art or science? 5

are entirely independent with quite separate histories. Lloyd’s Insurance Cor-
poration is concerned with mercantile and other insurance. Lloyd’s Register of
Shipping is concerned with the maintenance of proper technical standards in
ship construction and the classification of ships, i.e. the record of all relevant
technical details and the assurance that these meet the required standards.
Vessels so registered with Lloyd’s Register are said to be classed with the
Society and may be awarded the classification 4 100 Al. The cross denotes
that the ship has been built under the supervision of surveyors from Lloyd’s
Register while 100 A shows that the vessel is built in accordance with the
recommended standards. The final 1 indicates that the safety equipment,
anchors and cables are as required. Other provisos to the classification are
often added.

The maintenance of these standards is an important function of Lloyd’s
Register who require surveys of a specified thoroughness at stated intervals
by the Society’s surveyors. Failure to conform may result in removal of the ship
from class and a consequent reduction in its value. The total impartiality of the
Society is its great strength. It is also empowered to allot load line (see Chapter
5) certificates to ships, to ensure that they are adhered to and, as agents for
certain foreign governments, to assess tonnage measurement and to ensure
compliance with safety regulations. Over 1000 surveyors, scattered all over
the world, carry out the required surveys, reporting to headquarters in London
or other national centres where the classification of the ships are considered.

The standards to which the ships must be built and maintained are laid down
in the first of the two major publications of Lloyd’s Register, Rules and
Regulations for the Classification of Ships. This is issued annually and kept up
to date to meet new demands. The other major publication is the Register Book
in several volumes, which lists every known ship, whether classed with the
Society or not, together with all of its important technical particulars. Separate
books appear for the building and classification of yachts and there are many
other publications to assist surveyors.

A number of classification societies, including LR, DNV and ABS, offer a
service for classifying naval craft. Typically, such rules cover the ship and its
systems including those that support the fighting capability of the craft. They do
not cover the military sensors, weapons or command and control systems, so
that the classification society concentrates on the ship as a fit for purpose
weapon platform. The navy concerned acts as buyer and owner and can con-
tinue to specify any special military requirements. The technical requirements
that make a ship fit for naval service, and which would be defined by the navy
concerned, and make the ship different from a typical merchant ship, are:

1. different strength requirements to give a design able to accept damage;

2. weapon and sensor supports taking account of possible deformation of
structure;

3. the ability to withstand enemy action, including appropriate strength, stabil-
ity, shock and redundancy features;

4. allowance for the effects of impacting weapons.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 27 ---
6 Basic ship theory

The main elements of the class rules are common for naval and civilian craft.
This ensures compliance with international regulations such as those of SOLAS
and MARPOL. The warship is issued with the same range of technical and
operational certificates as would be the case for a merchant ship.

One advantage is that the navy, through its chosen shipbuilder, has access to
the world wide organization of the classification society in relation to material
and equipment acceptance.

GOVERNMENT BODIES

The statutory authority in the United Kingdom for declaring the standards of
safety for merchant ships, related to damage, collision, subdivision, life saving
equipment, loading, stability, fire protection, navigation, carriage of dangerous
goods, load line standards and many allied subjects, is the Department of the
Environment, Transport and the Regions (DETR). This department is also the
authority on tonnage measurement standards. It is responsible for seeing that
safety standards, many of which are governed by international agreements, are
maintained. Executive authority for marine safety was invested in 1994 in the
Marine Safety Agency (MSA) created from the former Surveyor General’s
organization. Then in 1998, an executive agency of DETR, the Maritime and
Coastguard Agency (MCA), was formed by merging the MSA and the Coast-
guard Agency (CA). The MCA provides three functions, survey and inspection
of vessels, co-ordination of search and rescue, and marine pollution control
response. DETR is responsible for enquiring into sea disasters through the
Marine Accident Investigation Branch. Responsibility for the safety of offshore
structures was transferred in 1994 from the Department of Energy to the
Health and Safety Executive following the Piper Alpha disaster.

Ship surveyors in the Marine Division and similar national authorities in other
countries, like the US Coastguard, carry, thus, an enormous responsibility.

INTERNATIONAL BODIES

The International Maritime Organization (IMO), represents over 150 of the
maritime nations of the world. The organization sponsors international action
with a view to improving and standardizing questions relating to ship safety and
measurement. It sponsors the International Conventions on Safety of Life at Sea
which agree to the application of new standards of safety. The same organiza-
tion sponsors, also, international conferences on the load line and standardizing
action on tonnage measurement and many other maritime problems.

LEARNED SOCIETIES

The Institution of Naval Architects was formed in 1860 when interest in the
subject in Britain quickened and it has contributed much to the development of
naval architecture. It became the Royal Institution of Naval Architects in 1960.
Abroad, among the many societies worthy of mention are the Association
Technique Maritime et Aéronautique in France, the Society of Naval Architects
and Marine Engineers in the USA and the Society of Naval Architects of Japan.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 28 ---
2 Some tools

No occupation can be properly developed without tools, whether it be garden-
ing or naval architecture or astro-navigation. Many tools needed for the study
of naval architecture are already to hand, provided by mathematics, applied
mechanics and physics and it will be necessary to assume as the book progresses
that knowledge in all allied subjects has also progressed. Knowledge, for
example, of elementary differential and integral calculus is assumed to be
developing concurrently with this chapter. Moreover, the tools need to be
sharp; definitions must be precise, while the devices adopted from mathematics
must be pointed in such a way as to bear directly on ship shapes and problems.
As a means of examining this science, these are the tools.

It is convenient too, to adopt a terminology or particular language and a
shorthand for many of the devices to be used. This chapter lays a firm founda-
tion from which to build up the subject. Finally, there are short notes on
statistics and approximate formulae.

Basic geometric concepts

The main parts of a typical ship together with the terms applied to the principal
parts are illustrated in Fig. 2.1. Because, at first, they are of little interest or
influence, superstructures and deckhouses are ignored and the hull of the ship is
considered as a hollow body curved in all directions, surmounted by a water-
tight deck. Most ships have only one plane of symmetry, called the middle line
plane which becomes the principal plane of reference. The shape of the ship cut
by this plane is known as the sheer plan or profile. The design waterplane is a
plane perpendicular to the middle line plane, chosen as a plane of reference at
or near the horizontal: it may or may not be parallel to the keel. Planes
perpendicular to both the middle line plane and the design waterplane are

Stern Bow

————— Main hull, ——————

Keel

Port side
Port quarter Port bow

Starboard bow
Starboord quarter Starboard side

Fig. 2.1

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 29 ---
8 Basic ship theory

Middle line plane Transverse plane

Water plane

Fig. 2.2

called transverse planes and a transverse section of the ship does, normally,
exhibit symmetry about the middle line. Planes at right angles to the middle line
plane, and parallel to the design waterplane are called waterplanes, whether
they are in the water or not, and they are usually symmetrical about the middle
line. Waterplanes are not necessarily parallel to the keel. Thus, the curved shape
of a ship is best conveyed to our minds by its sections cut by orthogonal planes.
Figure 2.2 illustrates these planes.

Transverse sections laid one on top of the other form a body plan which, by
convention, when the sections are symmetrical, shows only half sections, the
forward half sections on the right-hand side of the middle line and the after half
sections on the left. Half waterplanes placed one on top of the other form a half
breadth plan. Waterplanes looked at edge on in the sheer or body plan are called
waterlines. The sheer, the body plan and the half breadth collectively are called
the lines plan or sheer drawing and the three constituents are clearly related (see
Fig. 2.3).

It is convenient if the waterplanes and the transverse planes are equally
spaced and datum points are needed to start from. That waterplane to which

Body pian Sheer

56 AP.

Half breadth plan

Fig. 2.3 Lines plan

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 30 ---
Some tools 9

he ship is being designed is called the /oad waterplane (LWP) or design water-
plane and additional waterplanes for examining the ship’s shape are drawn
above it and below it, equally spaced, usually leaving an uneven slice near the
eel which is best examined separately.

A reference point at the fore end of the ship is provided by the intersection of
he load waterline and the stem contour and the line perpendicular to the LWP
hrough this point is called the fore perpendicular (FP). It does not matter where
he perpendiculars are, provided that they are precise and fixed for the ship’s
ife, that they embrace most of the underwater portion and that there are no
serious discontinuities between them. The after perpendicular (AP) is frequently
aken through the axis of the rudder stock or the intersection of the LWL and
ransom profile. If the point is sharp enough, it is sometimes better taken at the
after cut up or at a place in the vicinity where there is a discontinuity in the
ship’s shape. The distance between these two convenient reference lines is called
he length between perpendiculars (LBP or Lpp). Two other lengths which will be
referred to and which need no further explanation are the /ength overall and the
length on the waterline.

The distance between perpendiculars is divided into a convenient number of
equal spaces, often twenty, to give, including the FP and the AP, twenty-one
evenly spaced ordinates. These ordinates are, of course, the edges of transverse
planes looked at in the sheer or half breadth and have the shapes half shown in
the body plan. Ordinates can also define any set of evenly spaced reference lines
drawn on an irregular shape. The distance from the middle line plane along an
ordinate in the half breadth is called an offset and this distance appears again in
the body plan where it is viewed from a different direction. All such distances
for all waterplanes and all ordinates form a table of offsets which defines the
shape of the hull and from which a lines plan can be drawn. A simple table of
offsets is used in Fig. 3.30 to calculate the geometric particulars of the form.

A reference plane is needed about mid-length of the ship and, not unnat-
urally, the transverse plane midway between the perpendiculars is chosen. It is
called amidships or midships and the section of the ship by this plane is the
midship section. It may not be the largest section and it should have no
significance other than its position halfway between the perpendiculars. Its
position is usually defined by the symbol 9g.
The shape, lines, offsets and dimensions of primary interest to the theory of
naval architecture are those which are wetted by the sea and are called displace-
ment lines, ordinates, offsets, etc. Unless otherwise stated, this book refers
normally to displacement dimensions. Those which are of interest to the ship-
builder are the lines of the frames which differ from the displacement lines by
he thickness of hull plating or more, according to how the ship is built. These
are called moulded dimensions. Definitions of displacement dimensions are
similar to those which follow but will differ by plating thicknesses.

The moulded draught is the perpendicular distance in a transverse plane from
he top of the flat keel to the design waterline. If unspecified, it refers to
amidships. The draught amidships is the mean draught unless the mean
draught is referred directly to draught mark readings.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 31 ---
10 Basic ship theory

I
{7

Moulded

Moulded hs
ine

line

Displacement
YE line
Flush

In ond out

Fig. 2.4 Moulded and displacement lines

Moulded /
line

Deck
oo
i Freeboord
|
/
Moulded
WL depth
4
vk jf
/ | Moulded
draught
ae
a |
—_—— —L —
Keel

Fig. 2.5

The moulded depth is the perpendicu

ar distance in a transverse plane from

the top of the flat keel to the underside of deck plating at the ship’s side. If
unspecified, it refers to this dimension amidships.

Freeboard is the difference between th
perpendicular distance in a transverse p
of the deck plating at side.

e depth at side and the draught. It is the
ane from the waterline to the upperside

The moulded breadth extreme is the maximum horizontal breadth of any
frame section. The terms breadth and beam are synonymous.

Certain other geometric concepts of varying precision will be found useful in
defining the shape of the hull. Rise of floor is the distance above the keel that
a tangent to the bottom at or near the keel cuts the line of maximum beam

amidships (see Fig. 2.6).

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 32 ---
Some tools 11

Round down
<r camber

Flare

|
<— ¥ Rise of
_= =a Tiss. camber
|
y feet

Tumble home is the tendency of a section to fall in towards the middle line
plane from the vertical as it approaches the deck edge. The opposite tendency is
called flare (see Fig. 2.6).

Deck camber or round down is the curve applied to a deck transversely. It is
normally concave downwards, a parabolic or circular curve, and measured as x
centimetres in y metres.

Sheer is the tendency of a deck to rise above the horizontal in profile.

Rake is the departure from the vertical of any conspicuous line in profile such
as a funnel, mast, stem contour, superstructure, etc. (Fig. 2.7).

Fig. 2.6

Fig. 2.7

There are special words applied to the angular movements of the whole ship
from equilibrium conditions. Angular bodily movement from the vertical in a
transverse plane is called hee/. Angular bodily movement in the middle line
plane is called trim. Angular disturbance from the mean course of a ship in the
horizontal plane is called yaw or drift. Note that these are all angles and not
rates, which are considered in later chapters.

There are two curves which can be derived from the offsets which define the
shape of the hull by areas instead of distances which will later prove of great
value. By erecting a height proportional to the area of each ordinate up to the
LWP at each ordinate station on a horizontal axis, a curve is obtained known
as the curve of areas. Figure 2.8 shows such a curve with number 4 ordinate,
taken as an example. The height of the curve of areas at number 4 ordinate
represents the area of number 4 ordinate section; the height at number 5 is
proportional to the area of number 5 section and so on. A second type of area
curve can be obtained by examining each ordinate section. Figure 2.8 again

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 33 ---
12 Basic ship theory

Up to LWL
No. 4 ord.area=Ag

a

Set of curve for 4 ord
Bonjeon curves Curve of areas

Fig. 2.8

takes 4 ordinate section as an example. Plotting outwards from a vertical axis,
distances corresponding to the areas of a section up to each waterline, a curve
known as a Bonjean curve is obtained. Thus, the distance outwards at the LWL
is proportional to the area of the section up to the LWL, the distance outwards
at 1WL is proportional to the area of section up to 1WL and so on. Clearly, a
Bonjean curve can be drawn for each section and a set produced.

The volume of displacement, V, is the total volume of fluid displaced by the
ship. It is best conceived by imagining the fluid to be wax and the ship removed
from it; it is then the volume of the impression left by the hull. For convenience
of calculation, it is the addition of the volumes of the main body and append-
ages such as the slices at the keel, abaft the AP, rudder, bilge keels, propellers,
etc., with subtractions for condensor inlets and other holes.

Finally, in the definition of hull geometry there are certain coefficients which
will later prove of value as guides to the fatness or slimness of the hull.

The coefficient of fineness of waterplane, Cwp, is the ratio of the area of the
waterplane to the area of its circumscribing rectangle. It varies from about 0.70
for ships with unusually fine ends to about 0.90 for ships with much parallel
middle body.

Aw

Cwp = —
WP LwiB

The midship section coefficient, Cu, is the ratio of the midship section area to
the area of a rectangle whose sides are equal to the draught and the breadth
extreme amidships. Its value usually exceeds 0.85 for ships other than yachts.

~ BT
The block coefficient, Cp, is the ratio of the volume of displacement to the

volume of a rectangular block whose sides are equal to the breadth extreme, the
mean draught and the length between perpendiculars.

_ ov
~ BTLpp

Cm

CB


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 34 ---
Some tools 13

r ~ 1

LL |

Fig. 2.9 Waterplane coefficient

B

WY

Fig. 2.10 Midship coefficient

Mean values of block coefficient might be 0.88 for a large oil tanker, 0.60 for an
aircraft carrier and 0.50 for a yacht form.

The /ongitudinal prismatic coefficient, Cp, or simply prismatic coefficient is the
ratio of the volume of displacement to the volume of a prism having a length
equal to the length between perpendiculars and a cross-sectional area equal to
the midship sectional area. Expected values generally exceed 0.55.

V

Cp =
PA Lpp

Fig. 2.11 Block coefficient

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 35 ---
14 Basic ship theory

Fig. 2.12 Longitudinal prismatic coefficient

The vertical prismatic coefficient, Cyp is the ratio of the volume of displace-
ment to the volume of a prism having a length equal to the draught and a
cross-sectional area equal to the waterplane area.

V
Cyp = AwT
Before leaving these coefficients for the time being, it should be observed that
the definitions above have used displacement and not moulded dimensions
because it is generally in the very early stages of design that these are of interest.
Practice in this respect varies a good deal. Where the difference is significant, as
for example in the structural design of tankers by Lloyd’s Rules, care should be
taken to check the definition in use. It should also be noted that the values of
the various coefficients depend on the positions adopted for the perpendiculars.

Properties of irregular shapes

Now that the geometry of the ship has been defined, it is necessary to anticipate
what properties of these shapes are going to be useful and find out how to
calculate them.

PLANE SHAPES

Waterplanes, transverse sections, flat decks, bulkheads, the curve of areas and
expansions of curved surfaces are some of the plane shapes whose properties
are of interest. The area of a surface in the plane of Oxy defined in Cartesian
co-ordinates, is

A= [vax

in which all strips of length y and width 6x are summed over the total extent of
x. Because y is rarely, with ship shapes, a precise mathematical function of x the
integration must be carried out by an approximate method which will presently
be deduced.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 36 ---
Some tools 15

bx
=

)

8

Fig. 2.13

There are first moments of area about each axis. (For the figures shown in
Fig. 2.14, x; and y; are lengths and x and y are co-ordinates.)

My = [xn dx and My = [ yey

y y y
es
x
x lo)

(°)

Z
Z
g
g
4
g
g
Z
2

x [o)
~ =x -

Fig. 2.14

Dividing each expression by the area gives the co-ordinates of the centre of
area, (X, y):

1 1
=F fan dx and p=3 f may

For the particular case of a figure bounded on one edge by the x-axis

1 1
M; = [ av and yaa, | siax

For a plane figure placed symmetrically about the x-axis such as a waterplane,
Myx. = f x1y dy = 0 and the distance of the centre of area, called in the particular
case of a waterplane, the centre of flotation (CF), from the y-axis is given by

My _ fxyidx
A fyidx

x=

Fig. 2.15

*Note that M, = Myx.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 37 ---
16 Basic ship theory

It is convenient to examine such a symmetrical figure in relation to the second
moment of area, since it is normally possible to simplify work by choosing one
symmetrical axis for ship shapes. The second moments of area or moments of
inertia about the two axes for the waterplane shown in Fig. 2.15 are given by

1

r= 3) dx about Ox for each half

hy = [er dx about Oy for each half

The parallel axis theorem shows that the second moment of area of a plane
figure about any axis, Q, of a set of parallel axes is least when that axis passes
through the centre of area and that the second moment of area about any other
axis, R, parallel to Q and at a distance h from it is given by (Fig. 2.16)

Tr = 1g + Al?

Fig. 2.16

From this, it follows that the least longitudinal second moment of area of a
waterplane is that about an axis through the centre of flotation and given by
(Fig. 2.17)

2

IL = hy — AX

IL= [er dx — Ax’


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 38 ---
Some tools 17

THREE-DIMENSIONAL SHAPES

It has already been shown how to represent the three-dimensional shape of the
ship by a plane shape, the curve of areas, by representing each section area by a
length (Fig. 2.8). This is one convenient way to represent the three-dimensional
shape of the main underwater form (less appendages). The volume of displace-
ment is given by

v= [ads

i.e. it is the sum of all such slices of cross-sectional area A over the total extent
of x (Fig. 2.18).

x; le} Le

Fig. 2.18

The shape of the ship can equally be represented by a curve of waterplane
areas on a vertical axis (Fig. 2.19), the breadth of the curve at any height, z,
above the keel representing the area of the waterplane at that draught. The
volume of displacement is again the sum of all such slices of cross-sectional area
Ay, over the total extent of z from zero to draught T,

T
V= [ Ay dz
0

Sao itt ie NY


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 39 ---
18 Basic ship theory

The first moments of volume in the longitudinal direction about Oz and in
the vertical direction about the keel are given by

T
Mm, = [ Avex and my = [ Awzdz
0

Dividing by the volume in each case gives the co-ordinates of the centre of volume.
The centre of volume of fluid displaced by a ship is known as the centre of
buoyancy; its projections in the plan and in section are known as the longi-
tudinal centre of buoyancy (LCB) and the vertical centre of buoyancy (VCB)

LCB from Oy = =/ Ax dx

VCB above keel = </ Awzdz

Fig. 2.20 Centre of buoyancy projections

Should the ship not be symmetrical below the waterline, the centre of buoyancy
will not lie in the middle line plane. Its projection in plan may then be referred to
as the transverse centre of buoyancy (TCB). Had z been taken as the distance
below the waterline, the second expression would, of course, represent the pos-
ition of the VCB below the waterline. Defining it formally, the centre of buoyancy
ofa floating body is the centre of volume of the displaced fluid in which the body is
floating. The first moment of volume about the centre of volume is zero.

The weight of a body is the total of the weights of all of its constituent parts.
First moments of the weights about particular axes divided by the total weight,
define the co-ordinates of the centre of weight or centre of gravity (CG) relative
to those axes. Projections of the centre of gravity of a ship in plan and in section
are known as the longitudinal centre of gravity (LCG) and vertical centre of
gravity (VCG) and transverse centre of gravity (TCG).

1
LCG from Oy =z | aw
1
VCG above keel = — | zdW
above kee al

TCG from middle line plane = wean

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 40 ---
Some tools 19

Defining it formally, the centre of gravity of a body is that point through which,
for statical considerations, the whole weight of the body may be assumed to act.
The first moment of weight about the centre of gravity is zero.

Fig. 2.21 Centre of gravity projections

METACENTRE

Consider any body floating upright and freely at waterline WL, whose centre of
buoyancy is at B. Let the body now be rotated through a small angle in the plane
of the paper without altering the volume of displacement (it is more convenient
to draw if the body is assumed fixed and the waterline rotated to W;L)). The
centre of buoyancy for this new immersed shape is at B;. Lines through B and B;

M Immersed wedge

\

SSR KKK
SPOR ER KY

Emerged wedge

a
S
°,
es,
<9
one
“
‘
*
‘
SS
S

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 41 ---
20 Basic ship theory

normal to their respective waterlines intersect at M which is known as the
metacentre since it appears as if the body rotates about it for small angles of
rotation. The metacentre is the point of intersection of the normal to a slightly
inclined waterplane of a body, rotated without change of displacement,
through the centre of buoyancy pertaining to that waterplane and the vertical
plane through the centre of buoyancy pertaining to the upright condition. The
term metacentre is reserved for small inclinations from an upright condition.
The point of intersection of normals through the centres of buoyancy pertain-
ing to successive waterplanes of a body rotated infinitesimally at any angle of
inclination without change of displacement, is called the pro-metacentre.

If the body is rotated without change of displacement, the volume of the
immersed wedge must be equal to the volume of the emerged wedge. Further-
more, the transfer of this volume from the emerged to the immersed side must
be responsible for the movement of the centre of buoyancy of the whole body
from B to B,; from this we conclude:

(a) that the volumes of the two wedges must be equal

(5) that the first moments of the two wedges about their line of intersection
must, for equilibrium, be equal and

(c) that the transfer of first moment of the wedges must equal the change in first
moment of the whole body.

Writing down these observations in mathematical symbols,

Volume of immersed wedge = [> x tyodx
= Volume of emerged wedge
Ist moment of immersed wedge = i) x zydx
= Ist moment of emerged wedge

Transfer of Ist moment of wedges = 2 x [ive dx = vo fs dx

Transfer of Ist moment of whole body = V x BB’ = V-BM -¢
“ V-BM-6=30 | y'dx

But we have already seen that J = Rfy dx about the axis of inclination for
both half waterplanes

— |

“ BM = v
This is an important geometric property of a floating body. If the floating
body is a ship there are two BMs of particular interest, the transverse BM for
rotation about a fore-and-aft axis and the longitudinal BM for rotation about a
transverse axis, the two axes passing through the centre of flotation of the

waterplane.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 42 ---
Some tools 21

HOLLOW SHAPES

The hull of a ship is, of course, a hollow body enclosed by plating. It will be
necessary to find the weight and positions of the centre of gravity of such shapes.
A pseudo-expansion of the shape is first obtained by a method described fully
in a textbook on laying off. Briefly, the girths of section are plotted at each
ordinate and increased in height by a factor to allow for the difference between
projected and slant distances in plan. A mean value of this factor is found for each
ordinate.

It is now necessary to apply to each ordinate a mean plating thickness which
must be found by examining the plating thicknesses (or weights per unit area,
sometimes called poundages) along the girth at each ordinate (Fig. 2.23). The
variation is usually not great in girth and an arithmetic mean /’ will be given by
dividing the sum of each plate width x plate thickness by the girth. If the weight
density of the material is w, the weight of the bottom plating is thus given by
W =w f g’t dx and the position of the LCG is given by

Ww wn
= xdx
W / 8
Girth
mm Mean thickness = 19-3mm

x

Fig. 2.23 Bottom plating

To find the position of the VCG, it is necessary to return to the sections and
to find the position by drawing. Each section is divided by trial and error, into
four lengths of equal weight. The mid-points of two adjacent sections are joined
and the mid-points of these lines are joined. The mid-point of the resulting line

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 43 ---
22 Basic ship theory

Fig. 2.24 VCG of bottom plating

is the required position of the c.g. and its height / above the keel measured. For
the whole body, then, the position of the VCG above the keel is given by

Various factors can be applied to the weight density figure to account for
different methods of construction. An allowance for the additional weight of
laps, if the plating is raised and sunken or clinker, can be made; an addition can
be made for rivet heads. It is unwise to apply any general rule and these factors
must be calculated for each case.

SYMBOLS AND CONVENTIONS

It would be simpler if everyone used the same symbols for the same things.
Various international bodies attempt to promote this and the symbols used in
this book, listed at the beginning, follow the general agreements. The symbols
and units associated with hydrodynamics are those agreed by the International
Towing Tank Conference.

Approximate integration

A number of different properties of particular interest to the naval architect
have been expressed as simple integrals because this is a convenient form of
shorthand. It is not necessary to be familiar with the integral calculus, however,
beyond understanding that the elongated S sign, {, means the sum of all such
typical parts that follow the sign over the extent of whatever follows d. Some
textbooks at this stage would use the symbol © which is simply the Greek letter
S. It is now necessary to adopt various rules for calculating these integrals. The
obvious way to calculate A = f ydx is to plot the curve on squared paper and
then count up all the small squares. This could be extended to calculate the first
moment, M = J xydx, in which the number of squares in a column, y, is
multiplied by the number of squares from the origin, x, and this added for all

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 44 ---
Some tools 23

Fig. 2.25 The squared paper approach

of the columns that go to make up the shape. Clearly, this soon becomes
laborious and other means of determining the value of an integral must be
found. The integral calculus will be used to deduce some of the rules but those
who are not yet sufficiently familiar with that subject—and indeed, by those
who are—they should be regarded merely as tools for calculating the various
expressions shown above in mathematical shorthand.

TRAPEZOIDAL RULE

A trapezoid is a plane four-sided figure having two sides parallel. If the lengths
of these sides are y, and y> and they are / apart, the area of the trapezoid is
given by

A= sh(y1 +2)

=

Fig. 2.26 A trapezoid

A curvilinear figure can be divided into a number of approximate trapezoids
by covering it with n equally spaced ordinates, h apart, the breadths at the
ordinates in order being v1, y2, V3,---.n-

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 45 ---
24 Basic ship theory

Commencing with the left-hand trapezoid, the areas of each trapezoid are
given by
zh(vi +y2)
3h(y2 +93)
sh(y3 + ya)...

Fig. 2.27 Curvilinear figure represented by trapezoids

By addition, the total area A of the figure is given by

A= sh(yy + 22 + 293 +-°°+In)

A(gy + yo + y3+0+°4 yn)

This is termed the Trapezoidal Rule. Clearly, the more numerous the
ordinates, the more accurate will be the answer. Thus, to evaluate the expres-
sion A = f ydx the shape is divided into evenly spaced sections h apart, the
ordinates measured and substituted in the rule given above. If the ordinates
represent cross-sectional areas of a solid, then the integration gives the volume
of that solid, V = f Ady.

Expressions can be deduced for moments, but these are not as convenient to
use as those that follow.

SIMPSON’S RULES

Generally known as Simpson’s rules, these rules for approximate integration
were, in fact, deduced by other mathematicians many years previously. They
are a special case of the Newton—Cotes’ rules. Let us deduce a rule for integrat-
ing a curve y over the extent of x. It will be convenient to choose the origin to be
in the middle of the base 2h/ long, having ordinates y;, v2 and y3. The choice of
origin in no way affects the results as the student should verify for himself.
Assume that the curve can be represented by an equation of the third order,

2
Vea taxt ax +a3x°

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 46 ---
Some tools 25

The area under the curve is given by

h h
A | ydx | (ao + a,x + nx? +.a3x°) dx

h h

2,

x 3 ay th
ax + a+ a= +437 2agh + 2arh? (1)
lov 20h)

Assume now that the area can be given by the expression

A= Ly + Myx + Nos 2)

—h [e) +h x

Fig. 2.28

Now

Vi =a —Qh+ ah’ — ah?
v2 = a

V3 =a +aht+ahr +ah?
Substituting in Equation (2)

A=(L+M+N)ap —(L—N)ah+(L+N)ah? — (L—N)ash* (3)
Equating the coefficients of a in equations (1) and (3)

L+M+N2=2h
L-N=0 . L=N=th and M=$h
L+N=$h

The area can be represented by Equation (2), therefore, provided that the
coefficients are those deduced and

A shy +t thy2 t

hy3 =5h(y1 + 4y2 +93)

wie

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 47 ---
26 Basic ship theory

This is known as Simpson’s First Rule or 3 Ordinate Rule. A curved figure can
be divided by any uneven number of equally spaced ordinates / apart. The area
within ordinates numbers | and 3 is

A, =$h( +492 +93)
within 3 and 5 ordinates

Ay = 3h(y3 + 4y4 +s)

within 5 and 7 ordinates

A3 = 5h(ys + 4y6 + 7)

and so on.
The total area is therefore given by

A=$h(y1 + 4y2 + 2y3 + 4y4 + 2ys +46 + 2y7 +++ + In)

ie.

Yn)

This is the generalized form of the first rule applied to areas. The common
multiplier is 5 x the common interval / and the individual multipliers are 1, 4, 2,
4,2,4,...,2,4, 1.

The rule is one for evaluating an integral. While it has been deduced using area
as an example, it is equally applicable to any integration using Cartesian or polar
co-ordinates. To evaluate the integral M, = foxy dx, for example, instead of
multiplying the value of y at each ordinate by the appropriate Simpson multi-
plier, the value of xy is so treated. Similarly, to evaluate J. = f xy dx, the value
of x*y at each ordinate is multiplied by the appropriate Simpson multiplier.

No

A=Fh(by1 + 2y2 +3 + 2v4 + ys +26 +97 +0°°4

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 48 ---
Some tools 27

All of these operations are best performed in a methodical fashion as shown in
the following example and more fully in worked examples later in the chapter.
Students should develop a facility in the use of Simpson’s rules by practice.

EXAMPLE 1. Calculate the value of the integral { Pdv between the values of v
equal to 7 and 15. The values of P at equal intervals of v are as follows:

v 7 9 Il 13° 15
P 9 27 36 39 37

Solution: The common interval, i.e. the distance between successive values of v,
is 2. Setting out Simpson’s rule in tabular form,

vy P Simpson’s Functions
multipliers of f Pdv

7 9 1 9
9 27 4 108
ll 36 2 72
13 39 4 156
15 37 1 37

382

[ Para bx 2x 382 = 25427

The units are, of course, those appropriate to P x v.

To apply the trapezoidal rule to a curvilinear shape, we had to assume that
the relationship between successive ordinates was linear. In applying Simpson’s
first rule, we have assumed the relationship to be bounded by an expression of
the third order. Much greater accuracy is therefore to be expected and for most
functions in naval architecture the accuracy so obtained is quite sufficient.
Where there is known to be a rapid change of form, it is wise to put in an
intermediate ordinate and the rule can be adapted to do this. Suppose that the
rapid change is known to be between ordinates 3 and 4 (Fig. 2.30).

y

Oo 1 2 3364 § 6 --------- n £

Fig. 2.30

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 49 ---
28 Basic ship theory

Area between | and 3 ords. = sh(1 + 4y2 +93)

h
Area between 3 and 4ords. 3503 + 4yai 4 ya) th(4ys + 2y3 4 bys)

Area between 4 and 6 ords. = $/(y4 + 4y5 + Yo)

Total area ba(v1 + Ays + Ihy3 + 2yy + Id y4
+ 4y5+2y6+--- +n)

Note that, unless a second half ordinate is inserted, n must now be even.

Rules can be deduced, in a similar manner, for figures bounded by unevenly
spaced ordinates or different numbers of evenly spaced ordinates. For four
evenly spaced ordinates the rule becomes

A =3h(y1 +32 + 393 + y4)

Fig. 2.31

This is known as Simpson’s Second Rule. Extended for a large number of
ordinates, it becomes

A= 3h(y1 + 3y2 + 3y3 + 2y4 + 3s + 3¥6 + 27 +--+ + In)

Thus, the common multiplier in this case is 3 times the common interval and the
individual multipliers, 1, 3, 3, 2, 3, 3, 2, 3, 3, 2,..., 3, 3, 1. It is suitable for 4, 7,
10, 13, 16, etc., ordinates. It can be proved in a manner exactly similar to that
employed for the first rule, assuming a third order curve, and it can be used like
the first rule to integrate any continuous function.

Another particular Simpson’s rule which will be useful is that which gives the
area between two ordinates when three are known. The area between ordinates
1 and 2 is given by

Ay = fA(5y1 + 8y2 — V3)

12

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 50 ---
Some tools 29

° =
Fig. 2.32

This rule cannot be used for moments. The first moment of area of that portion
between ordinates | and 2 about number | ordinate is

My = x I? By, + 10y2 — y3)

These two rules are known loosely as the 5,8 minus one Rule and the 3,10 minus
one Rule. They are somewhat less accurate than the first two rules. Incidentally,
applying the 5,8 minus one rule backwards, the unshaded area of Fig. 2.32 is

Ay = bA(-y1 + 8y2 + 5y3)
and adding this to the expression for A), the total area is
A=$h(y1 +42 +93)

If the common multiplier has been forgotten, the student can quickly deduce it
by applying the particular rule to a rectangle.

Rules can be combined one with another just as the unit for each rule is
combined in series to deal with many ordinates. It is important that any discon-
tinuity in a curve falls at the end ofa unit, e.g. on the 2 multiplier for the first and
second rules; if this is so, the rules can be used on curves with discontinuities. In
general, because of differences in the common interval necessary each side of a
discontinuity, it will be convenient to deal with the two parts separately.

The first rule deals with functions bounded by 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, etc., ordinates
and the second rule with 4, 7, 10, 13, etc., ordinates. Let us deduce a rule for six
ordinates

y

Fig. 2.33

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 51 ---
30 Basic

Area

Area

Area

ship theory

between | and 2 ords. = 4,

=h

between 2 and 5 ords.

8

between 5 and 6 ords.

Total area

Table 2.1
Newton—-C

h(5y1 + 8y2 — ys)

Jr

i

is)

vit hy. - By)

3h(y2 + 393 + 394 + ys)

gy + 23 + a4 +35)

h(—ya + 8ys + Sy6)

25 25. 4 5
a4 + ag V5 4 V6)

‘otes’ rules

+ v4 + ys + 0.4V6)

Number of Multipliers for ordinates numbers

ordinates 1 2 3 4 5
1 1

> > 3
1 4 1

3 6 66)
1 3 3 1

‘ 3 8 8 3

5 7 32 12 32 7
90 90 90 90 90

6 19 75 50 50 75 a
288 288 288 288 288

7 41 216 27 272 27 a
840 840 840 840 840

8 751 3577 1323 2989 2989 a
17280 = 17280 ~—-:17280 17280 = 17280

9 989 5888 _ 928 10496 _ 4540 a
28350 28350 28350 28350 28350

Area = L x © (Multiplier x ordinate)

Ordinates are equally spaced with end ordinates coinciding with
ends of curve. Multipliers are always symmetrical and are
indicated by dots.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 52 ---
Some tools 31

These few Simpson’s rules, applied in a repetitive manner, have been found
satisfactory for hand computation for many years. The digital computer makes
somewhat different demands and the more generalized Newton—Cotes’ rules,
summarized in Table 2.1, may be found more suitable for some purposes.

TCHEBYCHEFF’S RULES

Returning to Equation (2) under Simpson’s rules, the rule required was forced
to take the form of the sum of equally spaced ordinates, each multiplied by a
coefficient. The rule could have been forced to take many forms, most of them
inconvenient.

One form which does yield a convenient rule results from assuming that the area
can be represented by the sum of ordinates placed a special distance x (which
may be zero) from the origin, all multiplied by the same coefficient, i.e. instead
of assuming the form as before, assume that the area can be represented by

A=p(yi+y2+ 93), yo being at the origin
Now
Vi =a — ax+ ax? = a3x°
2 =
V3 = dy Fax + ax? + 3x?
adding:
A = p(3a) + 2ax)
equating coefficients of a above with those of Equation (1) on p. 25

3p = 2h +. p= sh

and
2px? = 318 = pi?
1
v2

The total shaded area in Fig. 2.34 can therefore be calculated by erecting
ordinates equal to 0.7071 of the half length from the mid-point, measuring
their heights and that of the mid-ordinate, adding the three heights together
and multiplying the total by two-thirds of the half length.

h=0.7071h

A=$h(yi +y2 +93)

where y; and y3 are 0.7071 of the half length 4, from the mid-point.
This is Tchebycheff’s rule for three ordinates. Similar rules can be deduced
for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 ordinates when spacings become as shown in Table 2.2.
The eight and ten ordinate rule spacings have been deduced by applying
the four and five ordinate rules each side of the mid-point of the half length.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 53 ---
32 Basic ship theory

Table 2.2
Tchebycheff’s rule spacings

Number of Spacing each side of mid-ordinate as a factor of the half length h Degree of

ordinates, 7 curve
2 0.57735 3
3 0 0.70711 3
4 0.18759 0.79465 5
5 0 0.37454 0.83250 5
6 0.26664 0.42252 0.86625 7
7 0 0.32391 0.52966 0.88386 7
8 0.10268 0.40620 0.59380 0.89733 5
9 0 0.16791 0.52876 0.60102 0.91159 9
10 0.08375 0.31273 0.50000 0.68727 0.91625 5

The common multiplier for all rules is the whole length 2h divided by n, the
number of ordinates used, 2h/n.

Tchebycheff’s rules are used not infrequently, particularly the ten ordinate
rule, for calculating displacement from a ‘Tchebycheff body plan’, i.e. a body
plan drawn with ordinate positions to correspond to the Tchebycheff spacings.
Areas of the sections are calculated by Simpson’s rules or by other convenient
means, merely added together and multiplied by 2h/n to give volume of
displacement. Lines are, in fact, often faired on a Tchebycheff body plan to
avoid the more prolonged calculation by Simpson’s rules with each iteration.
Since fairing is basically to a curve or areas, this assumes the use of Tchebycheff
ordinates to define the body plan.

GAUSS RULES

It has been seen that the Simpson rules and Newton—Cotes’ rules employ equally
spaced ordinates with unequal multipliers and the Tchebycheff rules use constant

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 54 ---
Some tools 33

multipliers with unequal ordinate spacing. A third set of rules, the Gauss rules,
uses unequal spacing of ordinates and unequal multipliers as shown in Table 2.3.

Table 2.3
Gauss’ rules
Number of Spacing each side of mid-ordinate as a factor of the
ordinates half length. Multiplier
2 Spacing 0.57735
Multiplier 0.50000
3 Position 0 0.77460
Multiplier 0.44444 0.27778
4 Position 0.33998 0.86114
Multiplier 0.32607 0.17393
5 Position 0 0.53847 0.90618
Multiplier 0.28445 0.23931 0.11846

Integral = Sum of products x whole base

The Gauss rules have the merit of being more accurate than either the
Simpson or Tchebycheff rules, but their application involves more tedious
calculation when manual methods are used. By using Gauss rules, the naval
architect can either obtain greater accuracy by using the same number of
ordinates or obtain the same accuracy with fewer ordinates and in less time.

It can be shown that:

(a) a Simpson rule with an even number of ordinates is only marginally more
accurate than the next lower odd ordinate rule; odd ordinate Simpson rules
are therefore to be preferred,

(6) a Tchebycheff rule with an even number of ordinates gives the same
accuracy as the next highest odd ordinate rule. Even ordinate Tchebycheff
rules are therefore to be preferred,

(c) a Tchebycheff rule with an even number of ordinates gives an accuracy
rather better than the next highest odd ordinate Simpson rule, i.e. the
two-ordinate Tchebycheff rule is more accurate than the three-ordinate
Simpson rule,

(d) The five-ordinate Gauss rule gives an accuracy comparable with that
achieved with nine-ordinate Simpson or Tchebycheff rules.

EXAMPLE 2. Integrate y = tanx from x =0 to x = 7/3 by the five ordinate
rules of (a) Simpson, (b) Newton-—Cotes, (c) Tchebycheff, (d) Gauss.

Solution: The precise solution is

x/3
[ tan x = [-logcos x}?
0

= 0.69315
= 0.220647

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 55 ---
34 Basic ship theory

(a) Simpson
x
0
m/12
7/6
m/4
a/3

y
0

0.26795
0.57735
1.00000
1.73205

NIK De PN

f(A)

0
0.53590
0.57735
2.00000
0.86603
3.97928

Area -2 x x 3.97928 = 0.22107

3 12

(b) Newton—Cotes

x

0
m/12
7/6
m/4
a/3

y
0

0.26795
0.57735
1.00000
1.73205

M f(A)
7 0
32 8.57440
12. 6.92820
32 32.00000
7 12.12435
59.62695

lo@
Area = 0% 3% 59.62695 = 0.220847

(c) Tchebych

x

eff

y

m/6(1 — 0.83250) = 5.025° 0.08793
m/6(1 — 0.37454) = 18.764° 0.33972
= 30° 0.57735

7/6

x /6(1 4
x /6(1 4

+ 0.37454) = 41.236° 0.87655
+ 0.83250) = 54.975° 1.42674

3.30829

Area = 5 x 3.30829 = 0.22055

(d) Gauss

x

y

7/6(1 — 0.90618) = 2.815° 0.04918
7/6(1 — 0.53847) = 13.846° 0.24647

7/6
7/614

= 30°

0.57735

+ 0.53847) = 46.154° 1.04114

x /6(1 4

+ 0.90618) = 57.185° 1.55090

Area = 5 x 0.66192 = 0.220647

M

0.11846
0.23931
0.28445
0.23931
0.11846

f(A)

0.00583
0.05898
0.16423
0.24916
0.18372
0.66192


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 56 ---
Some tools 35

Computers
DIGITAL COMPUTERS

A digital computer is an electronic device capable of holding large amounts of
data and of carrying out arithmetical computations and groups of logical
processes at high speed. As such it is as much a tool for the naval architect to
use, as the slide rule, or the rule for calculating areas and volumes. It is, of
course, much more powerful but that makes it even more important to under-
stand. It is not necessary to know in detail how it works but its basic char-
acteristics, strengths and weaknesses, should be understood.

The system includes input units which accept information in a suitably coded
orm (CD-rom or disk readers, keyboards, optical readers or light pens);
storage or memory units for holding instructions; a calculation unit by which
data is manipulated; a control unit which calls up data and programs from
storage in the correct sequence for use by the calculation unit and then passes
he results to output units; output units for presenting results (visual display
units, printers, or plotters); and a power unit.

The immediate output may be a magnetic tape or disk which can be decoded
ater on separate print-out devices. Sometimes the output is used directly to
control a machine tool or automatic draughting equipment. Input and output
units may be remote from the computer itself, providing a number of out-
stations with access to a large central computer, or providing a network with
he ability to interact with other users.

As with any other form of communication, that between the designer and
he computer must be conducted in a language understood by both. There are
many such languages suitable for scientific, engineering and commercial work.
The computer itself uses a compiler to translate the input language into the
more complex machine language it needs for efficient working.

Input systems are usually interactive, enabling a designer to engage in a
dialogue with the computer or, more accurately, with the software in the
computer. Software is of two main types; that which controls the general
activities within the computer (e.g. how data is stored and accessed) and that
which directs how a particular problem is to be tackled. The computer may
prompt the operator by asking for more data or for a decision between possible
options it presents to him. The software can include decision aids, i.e. it can
recommend a particular option as the best in the circumstances—and give its
reasons if requested. If the operator makes, or appears to make, a mistake the
machine can challenge the input.

Displays can be in colour and present data in graphical form. Colour can be
useful in differentiating between different elements of the total display. Red can
be used to highlight hazardous situations because humans associate red with
danger. However, for some applications monochrome is superior. Shades of
one colour can more readily indicate the relative magnitude of a single para-
meter, e.g. shades of blue indicating water depth. Graphical displays are often
more meaningful to humans than long tabulations of figures. Thus a plot of
points which should lie on smooth curves will quickly highlight a rogue reading.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 57 ---
36 Basic ship theory

This facility is used as an input check in large finite element calculations. The
computer can cause the display to rotate so that a complex shape, a ship’s hull
for instance, can be viewed from a number of directions. The designer can view
a space or equipment from any chosen position. In this way checks can be
made, as the design progresses, on the acceptability of various sight lines. Can
operators see all the displays in, say, the Operations Room they need to in order
to carry out their tasks? Equally, maintainers can check that there is adequate
space around an equipment for opening it up and working on it.

Taking this one stage further, the computer can generate what is termed
virtual reality (VR). The user of VR is effectively immersed in, and interacts
with, a computer generated environment. Typically a helmet, or headset, is
worn which has a stereoscopic screen for each eye. Users are fitted with sensors
which pick up their movements and the computer translates these into changing
pictures on the screens. Thus an owner could be taken on a ‘walk through’ of a
planned vessel, or those responsible for layouts can be given a tour of the space.
Colours, surface textures and lighting can all be represented. Such methods are
capable of replacing the traditional mock-ups and the 3-D and 2-D line outs
used during construction. All this can be done before any steel is cut. To
enhance the sense of realism gloves, or suits, with force feed back devices can
be worn to provide a sense of touch. Objects can be ‘picked up’ and ‘manipul-
ated’ in the virtual environment.

It does not follow that because a computer can be used to provide a service it
should be so used. It can be expensive both in money and time. Thus in the
example above, the computer may be cheaper than a full scale mock-up but
would a small scale model suffice? A computer is likely to be most cost effective
as part of a comprehensive system. That is, as part of a computer aided design
and manufacture system (CAD/CAM). In such systems the designer uses a
terminal to access data and a complete suite of design programs. Several
systems have been developed for ship design, some concentrating on the initial
design phase and others on the detailed design process and its interaction with
production. Thus once the computer holds a definition of the hull shape that
shape can be called up for subsequent manipulation and for all calculations,
layouts, etc. for which it is needed. This clearly reduces the chance of errors.
Again, once the structure has been designed the computer can be programmed
to generate a materials ordering list. Then given suitable inputs it can keep
track of the material through the stores and workshops. The complexity of a
ship, and the many inter-relationships between its component elements, are
such that it is an ideal candidate for computerization. The challenge lies in
establishing all the interactions.

In the case of the design and build of a Landing Platform Dock (LPD) for the
UK MOD a system was used involving 250 work stations for creating 2-D and
3-D geometry and data, 125 work stations for viewing the data and 140 PCs for
accessing and creating the product definition model data. The system enabled
‘virtual prototyping’ and early customer approval of subjective areas of the
ship. Among other uses of the computer which are of interest to the naval
architect, are:


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 58 ---
Some tools 37

Simulation modelling. Provided that the factors governing a real life situation
are understood, it may be possible to represent it by a set of mathematical
relationships. In other words it can be modelled and the model used to study the
effects of changing some of the factors much quicker, cheaper and safer than
could be achieved with full scale experimentation. Consider tankers arriving
at a terminal. Factors influencing the smooth operation are numbers of ships,
arrival intervals, ship size, discharge rate and storage capacities. A simulation
model could be produced to study the problem, reduce the queuing time and to
see the effects of additional berths and different discharge rates and ship size.
The economics of such a procedure is also conducive to this type of modelling.

Expert systems and decision aiding. Humans can reason and learn from
previous experience. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is concerned with developing
computer-based systems endowed with such higher intellectual processes. It has
been possible to program them to carry out fairly complex tasks such as playing
chess. The computer uses its high speed to consider all possible options and
their consequences and to develop a winning strategy. Such programs are called
expert systems. These systems can make use of human inputs to help decide on
the significance of certain situations and what action is advisable. These know-
ledge-based expert systems have been used as decision aids. An early application
of such techniques was in medicine. Medical officers could not be provided for
all ballistic missile submarines, but they did carry a qualified sick berth attend-
ant (SBA). The SBA would examine a sick crew member, taking temperature
and other readings to feed into a computer program containing contributions
from distinguished doctors. The computer then analyzed the data it received,
decided what might be wrong with the patient and asked for additional facts to
narrow down the possibilities. The end result was a print out of the most likely
complaints and their probability. This enabled the command to decide whether,
or not, to abort the mission.

In the same way, the naval architect can develop decision aids for problems
where a number of options are available and experience is useful. Such aids can
enlist the help of leading designers, making their expertise available to even
inexperienced staff.

SIMULATORS

Anticipating some of the work of later chapters, the behaviour of a ship in
response to applied forces and moments can be represented by a mathematical
equation. The applied forces may arise from the deliberate action of those on
board in moving a control surface such as a rudder or from some external
agency such as the seaway in which the ship is operating. In its simplest form,
the equation may be a linear differential equation involving one degree of
freedom but, to achieve greater accuracy, may include non-linear and cross-
coupling terms.

The same form of equation can be represented by a suitably contrived
electrical circuit. In the case of a ship turning under the action of the rudder,
if the components of the electrical circuit are correctly chosen, by varying an
input signal in conformity with the rudder movements, the voltage across two

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 59 ---
38 Basic ship theory

points of the circuit can be measured to represent the ship’s heading. By
extending the circuitry, more variables can be studied such as the angle of heel,
drift angle and advance. This is the fundamental principle of the analogue
computer.

The correct values of the electrical components can be computed by theoret-
ical means, or measured in model experiments or full scale trials. Having set up
the circuit correctly it will represent faithfully the response of the ship. That is,
it will ‘simulate’ the ship’s behaviour. It can be made to do this in real time. The
realism can be heightened by mounting the set-up on a enclosed platform which
turns and tilts in response to the output signals. Furthermore, the input can be
derived from a steering wheel turned by an operator who then gains the
impression of actually being on a ship. The complete system is called a simu-
/ator and such devices are used to train personnel in the operation of ships and
aircraft. They are particularly valuable for training people to deal with emer-
gency situations which can arise in service but which are potentially too
dangerous to reproduce deliberately in the vehicle itself. Simulators for pilotage
in crowded and restricted waters are an example. The degree of realism can be
varied to suit the need, the most comprehensive involving virtual reality tech-
niques. By varying the electrical constants of the circuit the responses of
different ships can be represented.

If desired, components of a real shipboard system can be incorporated into
the electrical system. If the behaviour of a particular hydraulic control system is
difficult to represent (it may be non-linear in a complex manner) the system
itself can be built into the simulator. The operator can be presented with a
variety of displays to see which is easiest to understand and act upon. Research
of this type was done in the early days of one-man control systems for sub-
marines.

In many applications the high speed digital computer has replaced, or is used
in conjunction with, the analogue computer giving greater flexibility. Computer
graphics allow the external environment to be represented pictorially in a
realistic manner. Thus in a pilotage simulator the changing external view, as
the ship progresses through a harbour, can be projected on to screens reprodu-
cing what a navigator would see from the bridge if negotiating that particular
harbour. Other vessels can be represented, entering or leaving port. Changed
visibility under night time or foggy conditions can be included. Any audio cues,
such as fog sirens or bells on buoys, can be injected for added realism.

Another useful simulator is one representing the motions of a ship in varying
sea conditions. If the outputs are used to drive a cabin in a realistic way,
including the vertical motions, the effects of motion on a human being can be
established. Some subjects can be cured of seasickness by a course of treatment
in a simulator. By fitting out the cabin with various work stations, say a sonar
operator’s position, the human’s ability to perform under motion conditions
can be studied. Apart from physical symptoms, such as nausea or loss of
balance, the mental processes of the operator may be degraded. It may prove
more difficult to concentrate or to distinguish contacts on the screen. Optimum
orientation of displays to the axes of motion can be developed.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 60 ---
Some tools 39

Approximate formulae and rules

Approximate formulae and rules grew up with the craftsman approach to naval
architecture and were encouraged by the secrecy that surrounded it. Many were
bad and most have now been discarded. There remains a need, however, for
coarse approximations during the early, iterative processes of ship design.
Usually, the need is met by referring to a similar, previous design and correcting
the required figure according to the dimensions of new and old, e.g. supposing
an estimate for the transverse BM = /;/V is required, the transverse second
moment of area Jp is proportional to L x B? and V is proportional to
LxBxT

LBB Be
“ BM x Tar
Be
. BM=

KT

where K is a constant for geometrically similar ships.

BM, #3 7;

or = x=
BM, BT

This presumes that the forms are similar. This formula is one that may suffice
for a check; K varies between 10 and 15 for ship shapes. More important, it
shows how ship dimensions affect this geometric property, viz. that the beam
contributes as its square, the draught inversely and the length not at all. The
effects of changes to dimensions can, therefore, be assessed.

An approximate formula for the longitudinal BM is
oy jb

ML = BV

les]

NORMAND’S FORMULA

This is known also as Morrish’s rule. It gives the distance of the centre of
buoyancy of a ship-like form below the waterline.

Distance of VCB below waterline =i Lf + v
3\2 Aw

The formula is remarkably accurate for conventional ship forms and is used
frequently in the early design stages.

WEIGHT CONVENTIONS

Plating thickness in ships is usually specified in millimetres. Sections used in
ship construction are also specified in millimetres, web x table x thickness with
a mass per metre in kg/m.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 61 ---
40 Basic ship theory

a
—
nH
+
pis
=

Fig. 2.35

Statistics

A feature of present day naval architecture, as in other engineering disciplines, is
the increasing use made of statistics by the practising naval architect. This is not
because the subject itself has changed but rather that the necessary mathematical
methods have been developed to the stage where they can be applied to the subject.

It will be concluded, for example in Chapter 6, that the hull girder stress level
accepted from the standard calculation should reflect the naval architect’s
opinion as to the probability of exceeding the standard assumed loading during
the life of the ship. Again, in the study of ship motions the extreme amplitudes
of motion used in calculations must be associated with the probability of their
occurrence and probabilities of exceeding lesser amplitudes are also of consid-
erable importance.

It is not appropriate in a book of this nature to develop in detail the statistical
approach to the various aspects of naval architecture. Students should refer to
a textbook on statistics for detailed study. However, use is made in several
chapters of certain general concepts of which the following are important.

PROBABILITY

Consider an aggregate of n experimental results (e.g. amplitudes of pitch from a
ship motion trial) of which m have the result R and (nm — m) do not have this
result. Then, the probability of obtaining the result R is p = m/n. The prob-
ability that R will not occur is | — p. If an event is impossible its probability is
zero. If an event is a certainty its probability is unity.

PROBABILITY CURVE

When a large amount of information is available, it can be presented graph-
ically by a curve. The information is plotted in such a way that the area under
the curve is unity and the probability of the experimental result lying between
say R and R+6R is represented by the area under the curve between these
values of the abscissa. There are a number of features about this probability
curve which may best be defined and understood by an example.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 62 ---
Some tools 41

Consider the following example of experimental data.

EXAMPLE 3. Successive amplitudes of pitch to the nearest half degree recorded
during a trial are:

4,2,34243,.2 3414313542 1141215144 24 343,242,
2h 243,214

Solution: As a string of figures these values have little significance to the casual
reader. Using the concepts given above however, the occurrence of specific
pitch amplitudes is given in columns (1) and (2) below:

dQ) Q) (3) (4) (6) (6)

Pitch Number of
amplitude occurrences (1) x (2) ()-4 (4y (5) x (2)
i 1 1 —1.82 3.312 3.31
1 3 3 —1.32 1.741 5.23
1} 5 15 —0.82 0.672 3.36
2 6 12 —0.32 0.102 0.61
25 5 125 +0.18 0.032 0.16
3 4 12 0.68 0.462 1.85
3h 4 14 1.18 1.392 5.57
4 2 8 1.68 2.822 5.64
30 695 25.73

Selecting the information from this table,
1
ARITHMETIC MEAN = [J = 50 = 2.32 deg
MEDIAN is the mid measurement of the 30 which occurs midway between 2 and

25 = 2.25 deg. The median bisects the area
MODE = 2 deg. The mode is the most common value

RANGE = 4-5= 35 deg. The range is the difference of extreme values of

variate

25.73
STANDARD DEVIATION = 0 = VAe) = 0.926 deg

VARIANCE = 07 = 0.858 (deg)?

These values provide a much clearer physical picture of the motion being
measured than does the original test data. The significance of these various
features of the probability curve will be clear to the student with some know-
ledge of statistics (see Fig. 2.36).

Worked examples

EXAMPLE 4. Calculate the area, position of the centre of flotation and the
second moments of area about the two principal axes of the waterplane defined
by the following ordinates, numbered from forward. It is 220m long.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 63 ---
42 Basic ship theory

Arithmetic

mean

Frequency density

Median
(bisects area)

~ Range
Fig. 2.36
Ordinate number 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
30rd. (m) 0.2 2.4 4.6 6.7 8.1 9.0 9.4 9.2 8.6 6.3 0.0
Solution:
x
i 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 i)

Fig. 2.37
Ord. 4 Ord. S.M. Func. Lever Func. Lever Func. LOrd3 Func.
no. y of y x of xy x of xy of y
1 0.2 3 0.1 5 0.5 5 2.5 0.0 0.0
2 2.4 2 4.8 4 19.2 4 76.8 13.8 27.6
3 4.6 1 4.6 3 13.8 3 41.4 97.3 97.3
4 6.7 2 13.4 2 26.8 2 53.6 300.8 601.6
5 8.1 1 8.1 1 8.1 1 8.1 531.4 531.4
6 9.0 2 18.0 0 68.4 0 0.0 729.0 1458.0
7 9.4 1 9.4 -l —9.4 -l 9.4 830.6 830.6
8 9.2 2 18.4 —2 —36.8 —2 73.6 778.7 1557.4
9 8.6 1 8.6 —3 —25.8 -3 714 636.1 636.1
10 6.3 2 12.6 —4 —50.4 —4 201.6 250.0 500.0
11 0.0 3 0.0 —5 0.0 —5 0.0 0.0 0.0

98.0 —122.4 544.4 6240.0

68.4

54.0

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 64 ---
Some tools 43

Area = [> dx for each half

There are eleven ordinates and therefore ten spaces, at = 22m apart. The total

of the f(y) column must be multiplied by 3 times 22, the common interval, to
complete the integration and by 2, for both sides of the waterplane.

Total area = 2 x } x 22 x 98.0 = 2,874.7 m?

Ist moment = J» dx for each half

Instead of multiplying each ordinate by its actual distance from Oy, we have
made the levers the number of ordinate distances to simplify the arithmetic so
that the total must be multiplied by a lever factor 22. We have also chosen Oy
as number 6, the mid-ordinate as being somewhere near the centre of area, to
ease the arithmetic; it may well transpire that number 7 ordinate would have
been closer. The moments each side are in opposition and must be subtracted to
find the out-of-balance moment. First moment about number 6 ordinate,
My, =2x 3x 22 x 22 x 54.0.

Now the distance of the centre of area from Oy = M,/A; three of the multi-
pliers are common to both and cancel out, leaving

yf Ov) 22 x 54
70) 98

2nd Moment about Oy = | dx for each half

CF abaft 6 ord. ¥ = 22

12.1m

We have twice multiplied by the number of ordinate spacings instead of the
actual distances so that the lever factor this time is 22 x 22. The second moments
all act together (x is squared and therefore always positive) and must be added

.. [about 6 ord. = 2 x } x 22 x 22 x 22 x 544.4 = 7,729,000 m*

Now this is not the least J and is not of much interest; the least is always that
about an axis through the centre of area and is found from the parallel axis
theorem

I, = 1 — AX? = 7,729,000 — 2874.7 x (12.1)° = 7,309,000 m*

2nd Moment about Ox = sf dx for each half

To integrate y*, f(y) must be multiplied by 3 times the common interval.
Ty =2x 4x4} x 22 x 6240.0 = 61,000m*
This time the axis already passes through the centre of area.

EXAMPLE 5. A ship has a main body defined by the waterplane areas given
below. The waterlines are 0.5m apart. In addition, there is an appendage

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 65 ---
44 Basic ship theory

having a volume of displacement of 10 m? with a centre of volume 0.1 m below
No. 4 WL.
What are the volume of displacement and the position of the VCB?

Waterline 1 2 3 4

Area (m2?) 123 110 87 48

Solution:

WL Aread S.M. f(A) Lever,y f(4y)

1 123 1 123 0 0
2 110 3 3301 330
3 87 3 261 2 522
4 48 1 483 144

762 996

Fig. 2.38

Volume of displacement for main body = 3 x 0.5 x 762 = 143 m3

VCB below | WL for main body = a x 0.5 = 0.654m

Adding volumes and moments for main body and appendage:

Main body volume = 143 m?

Appendage volume = 10 m?

Total volume = 153 m3
Main body moment below 1 WL = 143 x 0.654 = 93.52m4

Appendage moment below 1 WL = 10(1.5+0.1) = 16.00m*
109.52 m4
109.52

Whole body VCB below 1 WL = 7537 0.716m

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 66 ---
Some tools 45

The value of a sketch, however simple, cannot be over-emphasized in working
through examples.

All of these examples are worked out by slide rule. The number of digits
worked to in any number should be pruned to be compatible with this level of
accuracy.

EXAMPLE 6. Calculate by the trapezoidal rule the area of a transverse half
section of a tanker bounded by the following waterline offsets. Waterlines are
3m apart:

WL 1 2 3 4 5 6

Offset(m) 244 24.2 23.7 22.3 19.1 3.0

Compare this with the areas given by Simpson’s rules,

(a) with six ordinates
(5) with five and a half ordinate equal to 16.0m

Calculate for (4) also the vertical position of the centre of area.
Solution:

WL Offset, y = Trap. mult. iQ) Simp. mult. AQ)

1 24.4 5 12.2 04 9.8
2 24.2 1 24.2 1 24.2
3 23.7 1 23.7 1 23.7
4 22.3 1 223001 22.3
5 19.1 1 191 1 19.1
6 3.0 5 15 0.4 1.2

103.0 100.3

Fig. 2.39

Area by trapezoidal rule = 3 x 103.0 = 309.0 m?

Area by Simpson’s rule = 3} 3 x 100.3 = 313.4m?

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 67 ---
46 Basic ship theory

WL Offset, y S.M. fl) Lever, x f(xy)
1 24.4 1 244 «0 0
2 24.2 4 96.8 1 96.8
3 23.7 2 474 2 94.8
4 22.3 4 89.2 3 267.6
5 19.1 15 2865 4 114.6
st 16.0 2 320 0 4h 144.0
6 3.0 3 1.5 s 15
319.95 725.3

Area = } x 3 x 319.95 = 319.95 m?

725.3

Centre of area below 1 WL = 319.95 x

EXAMPLE 7. An appendage to the curve of areas abaft the after perpendicular,
ordinate 21, is fair with the main body curve and is defined as follows:

Ordinate 20 21 22

Area (m?) 114.6 110.0 15.0

The ordinates are equally spaced 18m apart. Calculate the volume of the
appendage and the longitudinal position of its centre of buoyancy.

Solution:

Ord. no. Area,A S.M. f(A) S.M.  fu(A)

20 114.6 -l -1146 -l —114.6

21 110.0 8 880.0 10 1100.0

22 15.0 5 75.0 3 45.0
840.4 1030.4

20 2i 22

Fig. 2.40

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 68 ---
Some tools 47

Volume of appendage = 4 x 18 x 840.4 = 1260.6 m3

c.b. from 22 ordinate = 5; x 18? x 1030.4 x

Tees
_ 18 x 1030.4
~ 2x 840.8

c.b. abaft the AP = 18.0 — 11.03 = 6.97m

= 11.03m

EXAMPLE 8. It is necessary to calculate the volume of a wedge of fluid immersed
by the rotation of a vessel through 20 degrees. The areas and distances of the
centres of areas from the axis of rotation of the immersed half water planes
have been calculated at 5 degree intervals as follows:

Angle of inclination (deg) 0 5 10 15 20
Area (m?) 650 710 920 1030 1810
Centre of area from axis (m) 3.1 3.2 3.8 4.8 6.0

Calculate the volume of the immersed wedge.

Solution: The Theorem of Pappus Guldinus states that the volume of a solid of
revolution is given by the area of the plane of revolution multiplied by the
distance moved by its centre of area. If r is the distance of the centre of area of a
typical plane from the axis, for a rotation 66, it moves a distance r 66 and the
volume traced out by the area A is

6V =Aré@ (@ in radians)

The total volume is therefore given by

V= [ 4r00

This time, therefore, an approximate integration has to be performed on Ar
over the range of 0.

Ord. A r Ar S.M. flAr)
0 650 3.1 2015 1 2015
5 710) 3.2 2272 «4 9088

10 920 3.8 3496 2 6992

15 1030 4.8 4944 4 19776

20 1810 6.0 10860 1 10860

48731

Volume = 5 x 5 x 7% x 48731 = 1420 m3

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 69 ---
48 Basic ship theory

Fig. 2.41

Problems

1. A ship, 200 m between perpendiculars, has a beam of 22 m and a draught of
7m. If the prismatic coefficient is 0.75 the area of the waterplane 3500 m?
and mass displacement in salt water is 23,000 tonnes, estimate

(a) block coefficient

(6) waterplane coefficient

(c) midship section coefficient and

(d) the distance of the centre of buoyancy above the keel.

2. The length, beam and mean draught of a ship are respectively 115, 15.65 and
7.15m. Its midship section coefficient is 0.921 and its block coefficient is
0.665. Find

(a) displacement in tonnef and newtons in salt water
(5) area of immersed midship section
(c) prismatic coefficient of displacement.

3. Two similar right circular cones are joined at their bases. Each cone has a
height equal to the diameter of its base. The composite body floats so that
both apexes are in the water surface. Calculate

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 70 ---
10.

Some tools 49

(a) the midship section coefficient
(b) the prismatic coefficient
(c) the waterplane coefficient.

. A curve has the following ordinates, spaced 1.68m apart: 10.86, 13.53,

4.58, 15.05, 15.24, 15.28, 15.22m. Calculate the area by Simpson’s first
rule and compare it with the area given by the trapezoidal rule. What is the
ratio of the two solutions?

. The half ordinates of the load waterplane of a vessel are 1.2, 4.6, 8.4, 11.0,

2.0, 11.7, 10.3, 7.5 and 3.0m respectively and the overall length is 120m.
What is its area?

A curvilinear figure has the following ordinates at equidistant intervals:
2.4, 27.6, 43.8, 52.8, 44.7, 29.4 and 14.7. Calculate the percentage differ-
ence from the area found by Simpson’s first rule when finding the area by
(a) the trapezoidal rule, (b) Simpson’s second rule.

. The effective girths of the outer bottom plating of a ship, 27.5m between

perpendiculars, are given below, together with the mean thickness of plat-
ing at each ordinate. Calculate the volume of the plating. If the plating is of
steel of mass density 7700 kg/m’, calculate the weight in meganewtons.
Ord. No. AP 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 FP

Girth (m) 14.4 22.8 294 34.2 37.0 374 368 28.6 24.2 22.6 23.2
Thickness (mm) 10.2 10.4 10.6 114 13.6 13.6 128 104 10.1 10.1 14.2

. The half ordinates of a vessel, 144m between perpendiculars, are given

below.

Ord.No. AP 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 FP
5Ord.(m) 17.0 20.8 224 22.6 21.6 18.6 12.8 5.6 0.0

In addition, there is an appendage, 21.6m long, abaft the AP, whose half
ordinates are:

Ord. No. 12 11 10 AP
3Ord.(m) 0.0 9.6 14.0 17.0

Find the area and position of the centre of area of the complete waterplane.

. The loads per metre due to flooding, at equally spaced positions on a

transverse bulkhead are given below. The bulkhead is 9.5 m deep. Calculate
the total load on the bulkhead and the position of the centre of pressure

Ord. No. 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Load (tonnef/m) 0 15 30 44 54 63 69 73 75 74

A tank is 8m deep throughout its length and 20 m long and its top is flat
and horizontal. The sections forward, in the middle and at the after end are
all triangular, apex down and the widths of the triangles at the tank top are
respectively 15, 12 and 8m.

Draw the calibration curve for the tank in tonnes of fuel against depth
and state the capacity when the depth of oil is 5.50 m. SG of oil fuel = 0.90.
Only five points on the curve need be obtained.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 71 ---
50

ll.

12.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Basic ship theory

Areas of waterplanes, 2.5m apart, of a tanker are given below.

Calculate the volume of displacement and the position of the VCB.
Compare the latter with the figure obtained from Normand’s (or Mor-
rish’s) rule.

Waterplane 1 2 3 4 5 54 6
Area (m)” 4010 4000 3800 3100 1700 700 200

The waterline of a ship is 70m long. Its half ordinates, which are equally
spaced, are given below. Calculate the least second moment of area about
each of the two principal axes in the waterplane.

Ord. No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 14 8
4Ord.(m) 0.0 3.1 60 84 10.0 10.1 86 64 0.0

. The half ordinates of the waterplane of a ship, 440 m between perpendicu-

lars, are given below. There is, in addition, an appendage abaft the AP with

a half area of 90 m? whose centre of area is 8m from the AP; the moment of

inertia of the appendage about its own centre of area is negligible.
Calculate the least longitudinal moment of inertia of the waterplane.

Section AP 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 FP
4Ord.(m) 6.2 16.2 22.5 26.0 27.5 27.4 23.7 19.2 14.5 8.0 0.0

The half breadths of the 16m waterline of a ship which displaces 18,930
tonnef in salt water are given below. In addition, there is an appendage
abaft the AP, 30m long, approximately rectangular with a half breadth of
35.0m. The length BP is 660 m.

Calculate the transverse BM and the approximate value of KM.

Station FP 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 AP
4 Breadth (m) 0.0 21.0 32.0 37.0 40.6 43.0 43.8 43.6 43.0 40.0 37.0

The shape of a flat, between bulkheads, is defined by the ordinates, spaced
4m apart, given below. If the plating weighs 70 N/m’, calculate the weight
of the plating and the distance of the c.g. from No. | ordinate.

Ord. No. 1 2 3 4 5 6
Breadth (m) 53.0 50.0 45.0 38.0 30.0 14.0

Each of the two hulls of a catamaran has the following dimensions.

Ord. No. 1 2 3 4 5 53 6
4Ord.(cm) 0.0 4.0 62 7.2 64 4.9 0.0

The length and volume of displacement of each hull are respectively 18 m
and 5.3m}. The hull centre lines are 6 m apart. Calculate the transverse BM
of the boat.

Compare the areas given by Simpson’s rules and the trapezoidal rule for
the portions of the curve defined below:

(a) between ordinates | and 4
(5) between ordinates | and 2

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 72 ---
18.

19.
20.
21.

22.

23.

24.
25.

26.

Some tools 51

Ord. No. 1 2 3 4
Ord. (m) 39.0 19.0 12.6 10.0

The distance between ordinates is 10m.

Apply Normand’s (or Morrish’s) rule to a right circular cylinder floating
with a diameter in the waterplane. Express the error from the true position
of the VCB as a percentage of the draught.

Deduce a trapezoidal rule for calculating longitudinal moments of area.
Deduce the five ordinate rules of (a) Newton—Cotes, (b) Tchebycheff.
Compare with the correct solution to five decimal places fj sin x dx by the
three ordinate rules of (a) Simpson, (b) Tchebycheff, (c) Gauss.

A quadrant of 16m radius is divided by means of ordinates parallel to one
radius and at the following distances: 4, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14 and 15m. The
lengths of these ordinates are respectively: 15.49, 13.86, 12.49, 10.58, 9.33,
7.75 and 5.57m.
Find:

(a) the area to two decimal places by trigonometry

(5) the area using only ordinates 4m apart by Simpson’s rule
(c) the area using also the half ordinates

(d) the area using all the ordinates given

(e) the area using all the ordinates except 12.49.

Calculate, using five figure tables, the area of a semicircle of 10m radius by
the four ordinate rules of (a) Simpson, (b) Tchebycheff, (c) Gauss and
compare them with the correct solution.

Show that KB is approximately 7/6(5 — 2Cyp).

From strains recorded in a ship during a passage, the following table was
deduced for the occurrence of stress maxima due to ship motion. Calculate
for this data (a) the mean value, (b) the standard deviation.

Max. stress (MN/m?) 10 20 30 40 SO 60
Occurrences 852. 1335 772 331 140 42

Construct a probability curve from the following data of maximum roll
angle from the vertical which occurred in a ship crossing the Atlantic. What
are (a) the mean value, (5) the variance, (c) the probability of exceeding a
roll of 11 degrees

Max. roll angle, deg. 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 1517
Occurrences 13,400 20,550 16,600 9720 4420 1690 510 106 8

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 73 ---
3 Flotation and trim

A ship, like any other three-dimensional body, has six degrees of freedom. That
is to say, any movement can be resolved into movements related to three
orthogonal axes, three translations and three rotations. With a knowledge of
each of these six movements, any combination movement of the ship can be
assessed. The three principal axes have already been defined in Chapter 2. This
chapter will be confined to an examination of two movements

(a) behaviour along a vertical axis, Oz in the plane Oxz
(5) rotation in the plane Oxz about a transverse horizontal axis, Oy.

Fig. 3.1

Attention will be confined to static behaviour, i.e. conditions applying when the
ship is still. Generally, it is the change from one static condition to another that
will be of interest and so it is convenient to imagine any movement occurring
very slowly. Dynamic behaviour, involving time, motion and momentum will
be dealt with in later chapters.

Flotation
PROPERTIES OF FLUIDS

The mass density of a fluid p, is the mass of the fluid per unit volume. The weight
density w, of a fluid is the weight of the fluid per unit volume. In SI units,
w = pg so that, if p is in kg/m’, w is in newtons/m’. Since they vary with
pressure and temperature, the values must be related to a standard condition of
pressure and temperature. The former is normally taken to be one atmosphere,
10° Pa = | Bar and the latter sometimes 15°C and for water sometimes 4°C
when its density is a maximum.

52

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 74 ---
Flotation and trim 53

The ratio of the density of a solid or a liquid to the density of pure water is
the specific gravity, y. Since it is the basic reference for all such materials, the
weight properties of pure distilled water are reproduced in Fig. 9.1.

The inverse of the weight density is called the reciprocal weight density u, or
specific volume. The value for salt water is 0.975m3/tonnef or 99.5m3/MN.
Corrections are applied for variations of reciprocal weight density from this
value. Table 3.1 gives values of mass density for common fluids and for steel,
air and mahogany.

Table 3.1

Properties of some common materials

Material Mass density, p Reciprocal mass density Specific
7 gravity,

(kg/m*) (m3/Mg) 7

Fresh water (standard) 1000 1.00 1.00

Fresh water (British preferred value) 996 1.00 1.00

Salt water 1025 0.975 1.03

Furnace fuel oil 947 1.05 0.95

Diesel oil 841 1.19 0.84

Petrol 697 1.44 0.70

Steel 7689 0.13 7.70

Mahogany 849 1.18 0.85

Air 1.293 774.775 —

The reciprocal weight density is found merely by inverting the weight density
and adjusting the units.

In SI units, the reciprocal weight density w must be expressed in m3>/MN
which involves g. Hence, weight density reciprocal

_ Im 3? kgm 10°N
p kg 9.807m s? newton MN
10°

_ 3 : : 3
— 3807p m/MN_ with p in kg/m

for steel, for example,

10°

=o = 13.26
9807 x 7689 ~ 126m" /MN

u
The student is advised always to write in the units in any calculation to ensure
that they cancel to the required dimensions.

ARCHIMEDES’ PRINCIPLE

This states that when a solid is immersed in a liquid, it experiences an upthrust
equal to the weight of the fluid displaced.

Thus, the tension in a piece of string by which a body is suspended, is reduced
when the body is immersed in fluid by an amount equal to the volume of the
body times the weight density of the fluid; a diver finds an article heavier to lift

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 75 ---
54 Basic ship theory

Q-

Weight = 4
Fig. 3.2

out of water than under it, by an amount equal to its volume times the weight
density of water. This upthrust is called the buoyancy of the object. If, by
chance, the body has the same weight density as the fluid, the upthrust when it
was totally immersed would be equal to its weight; the string would just go limp
and the diver would find the object to be apparently weightless. If the body
were to have a smaller weight density than the fluid, only sufficient of the body
to cause an upthrust equal to its weight could be immersed without force; if the
body is pushed further down the buoyancy exceeds the weight and it bobs up,
like a beach ball released from below its natural position in the sea.

This leads to a corollary of Archimedes’ principle known as the Law of
Flotation. When a body is floating freely in a fluid, the weight of the body
equals the buoyancy, which is the weight of the fluid displaced.

The buoyancy of a body immersed in a fluid is the vertical upthrust it experi-
ences due to displacement of the fluid (Fig. 3.2). The body, in fact, experiences all
of the hydrostatic pressures which obtained before it displaced the fluid.

The buoyancy is the resultant of all of the forces due to hydrostatic pressure on
elements of the underwater portion (Fig. 3.3). Now, the hydrostatic pressure at a
point in a fluid is equal to the depth of the point times the weight density of the
fluid, i.e. it is the weight of a column of the fluid having unit cross-section and
length equal to the depth of immersion, T

p=Tw

Let us examine the pressure distribution around a rectangular block a x b x ¢
floating squarely in a fluid at a draught T. The pressures on the vertical faces of
the block all cancel out and contribute nothing to the vertical resultant; the
hydrostatic pressure at the bottom face is Tw and so the total vertical upthrust
is this pressure multiplied by the area:

upthrust = (Tw)ab

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 76 ---
Flotation and trim 55

Resuttont = /\
buoyancy “4 ny

Fig. 3.3

Pressure
=Txw

Fig. 3.4 Hydrostatic pressure at a point

But this is the displaced volume, abT, times the weight density of the fluid, w,
which is in accordance with the law of flotation.

In the general case, imagine a body floating freely in a fluid as shown in
Fig. 3.3. The body is supported by the summation of all the pressure forces
acting on small elements of the surface area of the body. Now imagine the
body removed and replaced by a thin film of material with the same surface
shape, and further imagine that the interior volume created by this film is filled
with the same fluid as that in which the body is floating. If the film has negligible
weight, a state of equilibrium will be produced when the level of fluid reaches
the outside level. Thus, the forces acting on the film from the outside just
support those acting on the film from the inside, i.e. the weight of fluid
displaced by the body.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 77 ---
56 Basic ship theory

Fig. 3.5

Buoyancy is plainly a force. It is the upthrust caused by displacement of fluid.
For very many years naval architects have used the terms buoyancy and
displacement interchangeably and the latter has become an alternative word
for the upthrust of the fluid upon a floating vessel. Both weight and buoyancy
vary in the same way with gravity so that anywhere in the world, the ship
will float at exactly the same waterline in water of the same density. For static
considerations we are interested wholly in forces and weights and so the
concept of a force displacement A identical to buoyancy is satisfactory and
convenient and is retained in this book.

The same is not quite true for the study of dynamic behaviour of a vessel
which depends upon mass rather than weight. It is necessary to introduce the
concept of mass displacement 4. However it is force which causes change and
normally the single word displacement refers to a force and is defined by the
symbol A. Thus:

A=gh=pgV=wVv

Retention of the metric tonneforce (tonnef) seems likely for many years yet in
rule-of-thumb practice, although students should find no difficulty in dealing
with displacement in terms of newtons. The tonnef is the force due to gravity
acting on a mass of one tonne.

It is convenient thus to work in terms of the mass of a ship © =n tonnes
which, under gravity leads to a force displacement, A = Lg =n x g =n tonnef.

With an understanding of the relationship of buoyancy and weight, the
wonder at why steel objects can float diminishes. It is natural to expect a laden
cargo ship to wallow deeply and a light ballasted ship to tower high, and we
now know that the difference in buoyancy is exactly equal to the difference in
loading. An important and interesting example is the submarine; on the surface,
it has a buoyancy equal to its weight like any other floating body. When
submerged, sufficient water must have been admitted to make weight and
buoyancy roughly equal, any small out-of-balance force being counteracted
by the control surfaces. A surface effect machine, or cushion craft obeys
Archimedes’ principle when it hovers over the sea; the indentation of the water

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 78 ---
Flotation and trim 57

beneath the machine has a volume which, multiplied by the weight density of
the sea, equals the weight of the craft (ignoring air momentum effects).

The watertight volume of a ship above the water line is called the reserve of
buoyancy. It is clearly one measure of the ship’s ability to withstand the effects
of flooding following damage and is usually expressed as a percentage of the
load displacement.

YZ Ube

Fig. 3.6 Reserve of buoyancy

VERTICAL MOVEMENT

Figure 3.2 shows the forces acting upon a floating body which are

(a) the weight, vertically downwards, which may be taken for static considera-
tions as acting as if it were all concentrated at the centre of gravity, as for
any rigid body;

(6) The buoyancy, vertically upwards, which may be assumed concentrated at
the centre of buoyancy, which is the centre of volume of the underwater
shape.

It must be made clear that when the ship is still, the weight and buoyancy forces
must act in the same straight line BG, otherwise a couple would act upon the
ship, causing it to change its attitude. What happens when a small weight is
placed on the vertical line through BG? (Strictly speaking, over the centre of
flotation as will become clear later.) Clearly the vessel sinks—not completely
but by an amount so that the additional buoyancy equals the additional weight
and vertical equilibrium is again restored. The ship undergoes a parallel sinkage
having a buoyancy W_and the centre of buoyancy B moves towards the
addition by an amount BB’. Taking moments about B

WBb = (A+ W)BB’
WBb
A+W ()

BB’ =

Thus, the new buoyancy (A+ W) acts now through the new centre of buoy-
ancy B’, whose position has just been found. It has been assumed that there is
no trim; when there is, Fig. 3.7 shows the projections on to a transverse plane
and the same result holds.

In the same way, the ship has a new centre of gravity. Taking moments about
G (see Fig. 3.8)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 79 ---
58 Basic ship theory

SK vy

Fig. 3.7

9 G' for A+W

Po ford

Fig. 3.8

WGg = (A+ W)GG'
WGg

A+W ()
Thus, the new weight (A + W) acts now through the new centre of gravity G’.
whose position has just been found. Note the similarity of the expressions.

Equation (1) involves a knowledge of the position of b, the centre of buoy-
ancy of the added layer of buoyancy. If the layer is thick, it must be determined
from the ship geometry—in fact, it is probably as quick to determine the
position of B directly from the shape of the whole ship. Frequently, however,
additions are small in comparison with the total displacement and b can be
taken half way up a slice assumed to have parallel sides. It is convenient to find
the approximate thickness of this slice by using a device called the tonnef per
centimetre immersion (TPC) or tonf (or tonnef) parallel immersion (TPI). This
latter has the merit of retaining a long established set of initials. When TPI is
used in this book it has this meaning.

GG’ =

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 80 ---
Flotation and trim 59
In old metric units, the weight required to effect a parallel sinkage of one
metre is

2,kg_Mg g
Pm} 1000 kg g

W

and TPC = pAw10-> tonnef per cm with Aw in m? and p in kg/m. For salt
water, p = 1025kg/m?, whence TPC = 0.01025 Aw.
In SI units, meganewtons per metre immersion

me kg 9.807m newtons? MN
Pm s kgm = 10°N
= 9.807pAw10~°

Aw

for which salt water becomes 0.01005 Aw MN/m.

Of course, arguments are completely reversed if weights are removed and
there is a parallel rise. What happens if the weight of the ship remains the same
and the density of the water in which it is floating is changed? Let us examine, at
first, a body of displacement A floating in water of weight density w; which
passes into water of lower weight density w. It will sink deeper because the
water is less buoyant. The weight and buoyancy have not changed because
nothing has been added to the body or taken away.

v A=V iw = V2
V1 _ WwW
V2 Wi

The volume of the layer = V2 — Vi

w2
= }-2
V2 ( =)

Fig. 3.9

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 81 ---
60 Basic ship theory

Now, this layer is made up of water of weight density w

*. weight of layer = V2w2 (: - 2)

Ww,

Ww

The approximate thickness of this layer is given by this expression divided by
the TPC or TPI in w» water; if the TPI is known in w; water,

TPly = TPL, 2 = TPH,

WI uz

The approximate thickness of the layer is also, of course, given by its volume
above, divided by the waterplane area

Aw = TPIw = a

Wy

Taking first moments of the volume about B the rise of the centre of buoyancy,

—— (V)—V\)Bb
BB! _ (V2 = Vi)Bb
V2

W\ —
= (1 - 2) Bb
Ww
It has been assumed that the increases in draught are small and that TPI is
sensibly constant over the change. There are occasions when a greater accuracy
is needed. What is the relationship between the change in displacement and

TPI? It will be remembered from Chapter 2 (Fig. 2.19) that the change in
volume of displacement.

WL?
change in V = Aw dT
WLi
WL
change in A = Aw dT
wl, UY

Writing this another way,

dA
Fo TPI = TPC
With an adjustment for units, the slope of the displacement curve with respect
to draught, gives the TPC; displacement is the integral curve of TPC, i.e.
displacement is represented by the area under the curve of TPC plotted against
draught.
Displacement of a ship is calculated with some accuracy during its early
design to a series of equally spaced waterlines. Although the curve of

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 82 ---
Flotation and trim 61

TPI 5ro 52:0 53-0
Fig. 3.10

displacement is plotted, it cannot be read to the required accuracy at intermedi-
ate waterlines. To find the displacement at an intermediate waterline, therefore,
to the nearest tabulated displacement is added (or subtracted) the integral of
the TPC curve between the tabulated waterline and the required waterline. For
example, suppose Fig. 3.10 shows an extract of the curves of displacement and
TPC at the 6m and 7m waterlines. The displacement at say 6.7m cannot
accurately be read from the displacement curve: TPC can be read with sufficient
accuracy at say, 6.0m, 6.35 m and 6.7m, integrated by Simpson’s first rule and
the displacement of the slice added. Worked example 4, illustrates this.

Trim

Trim is the difference in draughts forward and aft. An excess draught aft is
called trim by the stern, while an excess forward is called trim by the bow. It is
important to know the places at which the draughts are measured and trim,
unless it is obvious, is usually referred to between perpendiculars or between

Fig. 3.11 Trim

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 83 ---
62 Basic ship theory

AT a a

Fig. 3.12

marks. Used as a verb, trim refers to the act of angular rotation about the
Oy-axis, from one angular position to another. There is also another important
use of the word trim which must be excluded for the time being; in relation to
submarines, trim is also the relationship between weight and buoyancy. So far
as surface ships are concerned,

trim = T, — Tr
Ta — Tr

and the angle of trim @ = ZL

where L is the horizontal distance between the points at which T, and Ty are
measured.

Ifa ship is trimmed without change of displacement, it must rotate about the
centre of flotation. This can be shown by writing down the condition that there
shall be no change in displacement, i.e. that the volumes of emerged and
immersed wedges are equal (Fig. 3.12)

2 ve(srd)dx=2 [ ya(snd) as

ie. f xydx forward = f xy dx aft, which is the condition for the centre of area
of the waterplane.

A ship trims, therefore, about the centre of flotation of the waterplane. If a
small weight is added to the ship, to avoid trim it must be added over the centre
of flotation; the centre of buoyancy of the additional layer will also be at the
centre of flotation and there is no out-of-balance moment (Fig. 3.13).

CHANGES OF DRAUGHT WITH TRIM

Because a ship trims about the centre of flotation, the draught at that position
does not alter with trim. It does alter everywhere else, including amidships
where the mean draught between perpendiculars occurs. Now, the displacement
of a ship is recorded for different mean draughts but at a specified design trim.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 84 ---
Flotation and trim 63

Fig. 3.13 Addition of weight at the centre of flotation

Should the ship be floating at a different trim, it is necessary to imagine the ship
being trimmed about the centre of flotation (which does not alter the displace-
ment) until it is brought to the designed trim; the revised mean draught is
calculated and so the displacement pertinent to that draught can be found.
Suppose that a ship is floating ¢ out of designed trim at waterline WL and needs
to be brought to the designed trim WL; (Fig. 3.14). The change of trim
t=W,W+LL, = NL). By the principle of similar triangles, the correction
to the mean draught,
a
d= zt!

where a is the distance of the CF from amidships. From this revised mean
draught, the displacement can be found from the ship’s hydrostatic data. Had
the displacement been found first from the hydrostatic data for the ship floating

Fig. 3.14

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 85 ---
64 Basic ship theory

at the actual mean draught, it would have been necessary to correct the
displacement for the amount out of designed trim ; this is clearly the displace-
ment of a layer of thickness at/L which is

: . at
trim correction = Ir TPI

Whether this is positive or negative depends upon the position of the CF and
whether the excess trim is by bow or stern. Instead of attempting to remember
rules to govern all cases, the student is advised to make a sketch similar to
Fig. 3.14 on every occasion. For the case drawn, when the CF is abaft amidships
and there is an excess trim by the bow, the trim correction is negative, i.e. the
displacement given by the hydrostatic data for the actual mean draught to
waterline WL is too great.

The principle of similar triangles is especially useful in calculating draughts
at various positions along the ship, e.g. at the draught marks which are rarely at
the perpendiculars. To calculate the effect of changes of trim on draughts at the
marks, a simple sketch should be made to illustrate what the change at the
marks must be; in Fig. 3.15, a change of trim ¢ between perpendiculars causes a
change of draught at the forward marks of bt/L and at the after marks of ct/L.
Remember, all distances are measured from the CF!

Fig. 3.15

MOMENT CAUSING TRIM

The trim rotation @ is caused by a moment M. What is the relationship between
M and 6? In Chapter 2, we examined the rotation of any floating body,
and discovered that it appeared to rotate about a point called the
metacentre which was at a height //V above the centre of buoyancy. Examine

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 86 ---
Flotation and trim 65

now the particular case of rotation in the longitudinal vertical plane. Let us
apply a moment MM at the CF causing a rotation 0, immersing a wedge of water
aft and causing a wedge to emerge forward. The change in underwater shape due
to the movement of the wedges, causes B to move aft to, say, B}. The buoyancy
A acts vertically upwards, at right angles to the new waterline; the weight
continues to act vertically downwards through the centre of gravity G which
has not moved. The application of a moment M therefore has caused a couple
AGZ, GZ being the perpendicular distance between the lines of buoyancy and
weight, i.e.

M = AGZ

For small angles, sin @ is approximately equal to 6

-. M = AGM,0

ee 2 8

"7 a ——ABABRC AURCRRY,
Buss “

Fig. 3.16 Moment applied at the CF

If the angle of trim is such as to cause one metre of trim, @ = 1/L and the
moment to cause one metre of trim is

This is an important new tool for calculating changes of trim and it is tabulated
for each waterline in the hydrostatic data.

Thus, the change of trim in metres, caused by the application of a moment M@
is given by the moment divided by the moment needed for a metre change of
trim. Just as the length over which the trim is measured requires specifying, so
does the moment to change trim (MCT) require the length to be stated and,
frequently, this is the length between perpendiculars.

In practice, GM, and BM, are both large numbers and close together. (BG
may be one per cent of BM,). An approximation 1 is given by

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 87 ---
66 Basic ship theory

In metric units, the moment to change trim one metre or the one metre trim
moment is AGM_/L tonnef/m with A in tonnef or MN m with A in MN. For
salt water, approximately,

. ABML
One metre trim moment =

= 1.025 : tonnef/m
= 0.010052. MNm

MCT can be used for the general case, typical values being:

tonnef/m MNm

18m fishing vessel 30 0.3
90m submarine, surfaced 1800 18
110 m frigate 5500 54
150m dry cargo vessel 20000 210
240 m aircraft carrier 70000 650
300 m supertanker 200000 1900

ADDITION OF WEIGHT

It is a principle of applied mechanics that, for statical considerations, the effects
of a force P acting on a body are exactly reproduced by a parallel force P at a
distance / from the original line plus a moment PA. In other words, the body
shown in Fig. 3.17 behaves in precisely the same way under the action of the
force and moment shown dotted as it does under the action of the force shown
full. This is a useful principle to apply to the addition of a weight to a ship
which causes it to sink by a shape awkward to assess. If the weight be assumed

/

Fig. 3.17

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 88 ---
Flotation and trim 67

replaced by a force W and a moment Wh at the centre of flotation, the separate
effects of each can be readily calculated and added:

(a) the force W at the centre of flotation causes a parallel sinkage W/TPI,
(b) the moment Wh causes a change of trim Wh/MCT.

The changes of draught at any position of the ship’s length can be calculated for
each movement and added, algebraically, taking care to note the sign of each
change. See worked example 5.

Fig. 3.18

ef

Fig. 3.19

One particular case of added weight (a negative addition, in fact) is worthy of
special mention. When a ship grounds or docks, there is an upwards force at the
point of contact. This is assumed replaced by a vertical force at the CF plus a
moment which cause, respectively, a parallel rise and a trim. What causes the
force is of little interest in this context. A fall of water level, equal to the change
of draught at the point of contact is calculated from the combined effects of a
parallel rise and a trim. Any attempt to treat the problem in one step is likely to
meet with failure and the approach of Fig. 3.20 is essential. Worked example 6
illustrates the method.

While we are now in a position to assess the effects of a small added weight, let
us return for a moment to the exact behaviour of the ship so that we have a real

Fig. 3.20

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 89 ---
68 Basic ship theory

understanding of what is happening. Referring to Fig. 3.21, before the addition
of weight W, B, G and M were ina vertical line. The addition of the weight alters
the position of all three but they must, of course, finally be in a straight line, a
line perpendicular to the new waterline. What are the movements of B, G and
M?G must move along a straight line joining G and g and the distance it moves
could be calculated by an expression similar to Equation (2) on p. 58. B moves
upwards along the straight line Bb; due to the parallel sinkage to B, and then
moves to B> such that B;B> is parallel to bb. BB, can be calculated from
Equation (1) on p. 57. M moves up by virtue of B moving up to B, and,
assuming J constant, down because V has increased; BM = //V = wI/A and
B,M; = wI/(A + W) so that

1 1
BM — B|M, = wi(——-——_
mum mi(5 xa)

wilh
~ A(A+ W)

a as

Ce eS Srl aMa' BAO AV. OA O04 aw!

a
1

Fig. 3.21

We have assumed that / has not appreciably changed and that the vertical
component of B,B> is negligible. Thus, from the three movements calculated, a
drawing could be made and the angle of trim measured. Clearly, the use of
MCT is quicker.

LARGE WEIGHT ADDITIONS

While the use of MCT and TP1 or TPC is permissible for moderate additions
of weight, the assumptions implicit in their use break down if the addition
becomes large or the resulting trim is large. No longer is it possible to assume
that J does not change, that TPI is constant or the longitudinal position of the
CF unchanged. An approach similar to Fig. 3.21 is essential, viz.:

(a) calculate new position of G as already described or by considering the two
components,

a Wd
and GG; =

GG =——* =
AiW AiW


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 90 ---
Flotation and trim 69

Fig. 3.22 Movement of G

(5) calculate new position of B in two steps
(i) the change in B due to the addition of a parallel slab; the displacement
of the slab must, of course, be equal to the additional weight and its
centre of buoyancy b, may be assumed on a line joining the centres of
flotation of the two waterplanes at a height determined by the areas of
the two waterplanes. Then
) We — Wf

BB aw and BIB =a

a es
VLLLRELITDACTRLL LLL)

FON
<—
“NX

Fig. 3.23 Movement of B

(ii) the change in position of B; due to the trimming of the waterplane
(Fig. 3.24). The geometry of the wedges must be examined and the
positions of b found by integration or rule. At this stage however, we
encounter a difficulty—we do not know what @ is. The calculation is

Fig. 3.24 Trim effects on By

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 91 ---
70 Basic ship theory

Fig. 3.25

therefore made for two or more trial values of 6, giving positions of B2
applicable to each. As before

Wh

BiBb=_ lw and BSB, =

Wi
A+W

(c) examine the trigonometry of B and G, knowing that they must be in vertical
lines (Fig. 3.25). Having plotted the trial values of Bz, the choice of correct
position of By to correspond to the correct 6 is best carried out graphically
by trial and error. Having made such a judgment, the position is re- checked.

This is a laborious process. A preferable approach is to regard the ship as an
entirely new one with a revised position of G and a trim found from the
Bonjean curves to give B vertically beneath G and the correct displacement.
This, in fact, is how the design trim of the ship is initially determined.

DETERMINATION OF DESIGN TRIM

As described later, the early stages of ship design involve a trial and error
process of matching the longitudinal positions of B and G. For a given
displacement and position of G, it will at some stage be necessary to find the
position of the LCB and the trim resulting. Similar requirements occur in
bilging and launching calculations, which are discussed in later chapters.

To find the draught and trim corresponding to a specified displacement and
LCG position, it is necessary first to estimate the approximate likely waterline.
Accuracy in the estimate is not important. The trial waterline is placed on a
profile on which the Bonjean curve has been drawn for each ordinate so that the
areas up to the waterline can be read off (Fig. 3.26). These areas and their
ongitudinal moments are then integrated in the usual fashion to find the
displacement and LCB position. The waterplane offsets are then found, by
projecting the waterline on to an offset body plan and the properties of the


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 92 ---
Flotation and trim 71

Body | plon
Bonjean
curves

Offsets
Fig. 3.26

waterplane, in particular LCF, TPI and MCT (using the approximation sug-
gested earlier) are calculated. The ship may then be subjected to the calculations
for parallel sinkage to alter the trial waterline to a new one giving the required
displacement; it may then be trimmed to give the required position of LCB. If
the parallel sinkage or trim are large to achieve this, a second trial waterline will
be necessary and a similar adjustment made.

CHANGE OF WATER DENSITY

A ship moving from sea water to river will be subjected to a parallel sinkage and
a trim. Let us examine why.

It is necessary, to study the problem clearly, again to separate parallel
sinkage and trim. Because the river water has a smaller weight density and
is therefore less buoyant, the ship will sink deeper. We have already found on
pp. 59 and 60 that

the volume of layer = V2 —

and

weight of layer = Vow (1 - 2)

WI

Ww]

w being weight density, not the reciprocal.

Now the volume that previously provided sufficient buoyancy had its centre
of buoyancy at B, in line with G. The addition of a layer, which has its centre
of buoyancy at F, the centre of flotation, causes an imbalance. As drawn
(Fig. 3.27), a trim by the bow is caused and the wedges of added and lost
buoyancy introduced by the trim restore equilibrium (Fig. 3.28).

If e is the horizontal distance between LCF and LCB, the moment causing
trim is

Ae(1 - 2)
Ww

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 93 ---
72 Basic ship theory

: ‘
C27 LT LZ ZAR TAP AOI ZZ

Fig. 3.27

= SSS

Tt y

Fig. 3.28

The trim is then

Ae Ww
Ae(1—
MCT e( -) “AGM

Y L
approx Ae(1 - 2) x —

wy Iw

It must be remembered that the trim occurs in w. water and MCT must be
related to that; if the value of MCT is given for w water, approximately, since
MCT is proportional to w//L,

MCT; = MCT x 2
Ww

It is not difficult to produce formulae for changes in draught for particular
changes of condition and to invent rules which give the direction of trim.
The student is advised to commit none to memory. Each problem should be
tackled with a small diagram and an understanding of what actually happens.
Summarizing, the process is

(a) using Archimedes’ principle, calculate the volume and thence the weight of
the layer,

(5) calculate the parallel sinkage using TPI pertinent to the new water,

(c) calculate the trim due to the movement of the layer buoyancy from B to
F, using MCT pertinent to the new water. Worked example 7 is an illustra-
tion.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 94 ---
Flotation and trim 73

Hydrostatic data

Throughout its life, a ship changes its weight and disposition of cargo, its
draught and trim, and freeboard; the density of the water in which it floats
varies. Its stability, discussed later, also changes. If its condition in any stated
set of circumstances is to be estimated, its condition in a precise state must be
known so that the effect of the changes from that state can be calculated. This
precise state is known as the design condition. For ocean going ships, a specific
volume of 99.5m?/MN or 0.975m3/tonnef is employed for salt water. For
this water the tools necessary to calculate changes from the design or
load waterline are calculated for a complete range of waterlines. Also calculated
are the geometrical properties of the underwater form for the range of
waterlines.

Collectively, this information is known as the hydrostatic data. It is pre-
sented either in tabular form when intermediate values are interpolated or as a
set of curves, which are called the hydrostatic curves.

HYDROSTATIC CURVES

The following properties are plotted against draught to form the hydrostatic
curves

(i) Centre of bouyancy above keel, KB

(ii) Transverse metacentre above keel, KM

(iii) CB aft of amidships

(iv) CF aft of amidships

(v) Displacement

(vi) Tonnef per centimetre immersion

(vii) Change of displacement for one metre change of trim
(viii) Moment to change trim one metre.

Occasionally, certain other properties are also plotted, such as longitudinal KM,
area of wetted surface and some of the geometric coefficients.

The first four items are all items of ship geometry and are affected neither by
the density of the water nor by the ship’s weight. Items (v), (vi) and (vii) are all
related to the weight density of the water. Item (viii) is also related to the weight
density of the water and alone is affected by the vertical position of the
ship’s centre of gravity, albeit only slightly. Accepting the approximation to
MCT and pp. 65 and 66 all of these last four properties are corrected in the
same way when their values are required in water of different densities; if the
property is known in water of reciprocal weight density w and it is required in
water of reciprocal density w,

. : uy
property in w. water = property in uj water x —
uz

u, will often be equal to 0.975 m3/tonnef.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 95 ---
74 Basic ship theory

Waterline
ES w © a
20 000 20Az
600
=
0) 52
800 60
0 30 000 0
6 A6 5 1000 8 -
2
42 2 7 1200
30 40 000
6 28 10
14
5 18 =
iS
22X¢,

Fig. 3.29 Typical hydrostatic curves


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 96 ---
Flotation and trim 75

(i) KB, metres (v) Displacement, tonnef
(ii) KM, metres (vi) Tonnef per cm immersion
(iii) CB abaft amidships, metres (vii) Change of displacement for 1m
(iv) CF abaft amidships, metres change of trim
(viii) Moment to change trim one metre,
tonnef/m

For example see Fig 3.29.

Mean CF abaft CB abaft
WL draught (m) Disp. TPC amidships amidships KB KM
1 14 47900 53.19 = 20.25 2.01 8.17 26.51
2 12 37600 49.43 9.19 —3.18 6.95 27.38
3 10 28500 45.58 —0.39 —7.A17 5.76 28.79
4 8 20000 41.69 —9.94 —10.31 4.57 31.01

CALCULATION OF HYDROSTATIC DATA

The traditional manner of calculating the hydrostatic data is so methodical that
it lends itself very readily to programming for a computer. Each of the proper-
ties listed above is calculated for each of the waterlines of the ship by the
methods already described in this and the previous chapters. The offsets are

WATERLINES

Fig. 3.30 A simplified displacement sheet

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 97 ---
76 Basic ship theory

set down in tabular form as shown in Fig. 3.30 which has been compiled for
illustration purposes for a simple ship shape—in practice 21 ordinates and several
more waterlines are usual. Offsets are set down in tabular fashion to correspond
to the orthogonal sections explained by Fig. 2.3. The table is known as the
displacement table and the complete sheet of calculations as a displacement sheet.

The waterline offsets are set down in vertical columns and each is operated
upon by the vertical column of Simpson’s multipliers. The sums of these
columns are functions (i.e. values proportional to) of waterplane areas
which, operated upon by the horizontal multipliers and summed give a function
of the displacement. Levers applied to these functions result in a function of
VCB. This whole process applied, first, to the ordinates by the horizontal
multipliers and, secondly, to the functions of ordinate areas by the vertical
multipliers and levers results in a function of displacement and a function of
LCB. Clearly, the two functions of displacement should be the same and this
comprises the traditional corner check.

There will frequently be an appendage below the lowest convenient waterline
which must be added to the main body calculations. Areas of this appendage at
each ordinate are measured (e.g. by planimeter) and positions of centres of
areas either spotted or, if the appendage is considerable, measured. The effects
of the appendage are then included, as described in Chapter 2.

With the offsets for each waterplane so conveniently presented by the dis-
placement table, it is a simple matter to calculate by the methods described
in Chapter 2, area, position of CF and the second moments of area for each
waterplane. Displacements and CB positions are calculated by adding or sub-
tracting slices from the nearest waterplane calculations.

If Tchebycheff spacings of ordinates are adopted, the Simpson multipliers
are, of course, dispensed with in one direction. A form of displacement table in
which this is done is not unusual.

THE METACENTRIC DIAGRAM

As has already been discussed, the positions of B and M are dependent only on
the geometry of the ship and the waterplane at which it is floating. They can,
therefore, be determined without any knowledge of the actual condition of ship
loading which causes it to float at that waterline.

The metacentric diagram is a convenient way of defining variations in
relative heights of B and M for a series of waterlines parallel to the design or
load waterplane. Such a diagram is shown in Fig. 3.31 and it is constructed as
follows. The vertical scale is used to represent draught and a line is drawn at 45
degrees to this scale. For a given draught 7 a horizontal line is drawn inter-
secting the 45 degree line in D, and a vertical line is drawn through Dj. On this
vertical line, a distance D; M, is set out to represent the height of the metacentre
above the waterplane and D;B, to represent the depth of the centre of buoy-
ancy below the waterplane. This process is repeated a sufficient number of times
to define adequately the loci of the metacentre and centre of buoyancy.
These two loci are termed the M and B curves. As drawn, M, lies above the
waterplane but this is not necessarily always the case and the M curve may cross


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 98 ---
Flotation and trim 77

Mean val
draug! TPM

Fig. 3.31 Metacentric diagram

the 45 degree line. A table is constructed to the left of the diagram, in which are
listed the displacements and TPI values for each of a number of draughts
corresponding to typical ship conditions. These conditions must, strictly, be
reduced to a common trim so that the loci of M and B will be continuous. In
practice, however, not much error is involved in using the diagram for condi-
tions other than the standard condition provided that the difference in trim is
not excessive and provided that the draught is that at the centre of flotation.

In addition to the M and B curves, it is usual to show the positions of G for
the conditions chosen. These positions can be obtained by methods discussed in
Chapter 4.

Since KB is approximately proportional to draught over the normal operat-
ing range, the B curve is usually nearly straight for conventional ship shapes.
The M curve, on the other hand, usually falls steeply with increasing draught at
shallow draught then levels out and may even begin to rise at very deep draught.

Worked examples

EXAMPLE |. Construct a metacentric diagram for a body with constant trian-
gular cross-section floating with its apex down and at level draught. Dimensions
of cross-section are shown in the figure.

ft

Fig. 3.32

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 99 ---
78 Basic ship theory

Solution:

B curve

Fig. 3.33

For a given draught 7), KB = 47. Hence, the B curve is a straight line
passing through 0, at an angle 3 to the vertical such that

T;
tan 6 = =—
an (6 2 T;
ie.
tan B= 1.5
T)
Breadth of waterplane at draught 7; = oF

_ EM 1 b(eTi/H)L
eT STN ETL
_1eT)
6 H?

a 2 1/e
» _ KM, = KB; + BiM, 3h ‘e(aan

T| eC
a=i!fa4
(4+)

Hence, in this case, since c and H are constants, the M curve is also a straight
line through 0 but at an angle 7 to the vertical such that

Ty 6H?
T1(44/H?)/6 44P +2

tany

EXAMPLE 2. Construct a metacentric diagram for a vessel of constant circular
cross-section floating at uniform draught.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 100 ---
Flotation and trim 79

Solution:

M curve

Fig. 3.34

For any inclination at any draught the buoyancy force must, from geometric
considerations, pass through the centre of the circular cross-section. Hence, the
M curve is a horizontal straight line.

The expression for KB is more complicated, but general considerations show
that the curve must become tangential to the M curve when 7; = 2R and that
its general form will be as indicated. If it is assumed that for small draughts the
circle can be approximated to by a parabola, it can be shown that the tangent to
the B curve at 0 is given by

5
-1
G=tan 3
EXAMPLE 3. When the tide falls, a moored barge grounds in soft homogeneous
mud of specific gravity 1.35. With the keel just touching the mud, the barge
was drawing a level 1.65 m of salt water of reciprocal weight density 0.975 m?/
tonnef. The tide falls a further 18 cm.

Assuming that the barge is box shaped 25m long and 5m in breadth,
calculate the draught after the tide has fallen. What weight must be removed
to free the barge from the mud?

Solution: When floating free

1.65 x 25x 5 __,tonnef

A 211.5 tonnef.

0975 m3


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 101 ---
80 Basic ship theory

When in mud,

buoyancy supplied by salt water = re x 211.5 = 188.4 tonnef

buoyancy needed from mud = 211.5 — 188.4 = 23.1 tonnef
buoyancy provided by mud = x x 25 x 5 x 1.35 = 23.1
23.1
"YS 95% 5x 1.35
-. draught when tide has fallen = 1.61 m

=0.14m

weight to be removed to clear mud = 23.1 tonnef.

(The draught x could also have been obtained by taking a proportion of the
18cm fall in tide in the ratio of the S.Gs of mud and salt water,

(1.35 x 0.975)x = 0.18.

EXAMPLE 4. Hydrostatic data for a ship show the following

Draught 6m 7m 8m
Displacement (tonnef) 8421 10,900 13,700
TPC (tonnef/cm) 25.3 26.0 26.8

Calculate the displacement at a draught of 7.3m.

Solution: The TPC curve gives values of TPC at 7.15m and 7.3 m. of 26.10 and
26.22 by plotting

WL TPC SM _ {(V)
73m 2622 1 26.22
715m 26.10 4 104.40
7.00m 26.00 1 26.00

156.62

0.15
displacement of addition = > x 156.62 x 100 tonnef

= 783.1 tonnef

-. Ato 7.3m. waterline = 11,683 tonnef.

(The best obtainable from interpolation of the displacement curve would have
been a straight line relationship giving A = 10,900 + $2 (13,700 — 10,900)

11,740 tonnef. Alternatively we would have obtained a sufficiently accurate
answer in this case by assuming the TPC to be constant at its 7.15m. value,

linearly interpolated between the two top waterplanes, i.e.

0.15
26.00 + T00 x 0.80 = 26.12

then

A = 10,900 + 0.3 x 26.12 x 100 = 11,684 tonnef.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 102 ---
Flotation and trim 81

EXAMPLE 5. During a voyage, a cargo ship uses up 320 tonnef of consumable
stores and fuel from the fore peak, 85m forward of midships.

Before the voyage, the forward draught marks 7m aft of the forward per-
pendicular, recorded 5.46 m and the after marks, 2 m aft of the after perpendi-
cular, recorded 5.85m. At this mean draught, the hydrostatic data show the
ship to have tonnef per centimetre = 44, one metre trim moment BP = 33,200
tonnef/m BP, CF aft of midships = 3m. Length BP = 195m. Calculate the
draught mark readings at the end of the voyage, assuming that there is no
change in water density.

Solution (see Fig. 3.36):

: 320
Parallel rise = 7400 = 0.073 m

Moment trimming = 320(85 + 3)tonnef/m.

320 x 88

Trim BP (195m) = 300°

= 0.848 m.

Draught change at FM due to trim = ~ x 0.848 = 0.406 m.

96.5
Draught change at AM due to trim = 795 * 0.848 = 0.420m.

New draught at FM = 5.46 — 0.07 — 0.41 = 4.98 m.

New draught at AM = 5.85 — 0.07 + 0.42 = 6.20m.

A clear sketch is essential for a reliable solution to problems of this sort.

EXAMPLE 6. A fishing vessel grounds on a rock at a point 13.4m from the FP
when the depth of water is 0.3m above low tide. Before grounding, the vessel
was drawing 1.60 m at the FP and 2.48 m at the AP. At this mean draught, TPI
in MN per metre immersion = 3.5, one metre trim moment = 13 MNm and CF
is | m forward of midships. The ship is 49 m BP. Calculate the force at the keel
and the new draughts at low tide.

Solution: Let the force at the rock be P MN and replace it by a force P MN and
a moment 10.1 P MNm at the CF.
P

Parallel rise due to P = 35 m

10.1P
Change of trim due to 10.1 P= Ta m BP

10.1 10.1P

Change of draught at rock due to trim = pm * DB

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 103 ---
82 Basic ship theory

EEL NM LLLL LLL LLAMA LA
SSS

Fig. 3.36

24-5 m 245m
= ———_—- _

Fig. 3.37

P 10.1. 10.1P
Total change of draught at rock = 35 + pa

= fall of tide = 0.3m
-. P(0.286 + 0.160) = 0.3
“. P=0.673MN

Then parallel rise due to P = 0.192 m.

Change of trim due to 10.1 P = 0.523 m.

23.5
Change of draught at FP due to trim = a * 0.523 = 0.251 m.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 104 ---
Flotation and trim 83

25.5
Change of draught at AP due to trim = 707 x 0.523 = 0.272 m.

New draught at FP = 1.600 — 0.192 — 0.251 = 1.157m.

New draught at AP = 2.480 — 0.192 + 0.272 = 2.560 m.

(Because the final trim is large, it is unlikely that the answer can be relied upon
to within 10cm.)

EXAMPLE 7. The hydrostatic curves (prepared for water of reciprocal weight
density 0.975 m/tonnef) for a guided missile destroyer show it to have the
following particulars at a mean draught of 5.42 m at which it is floating with a
0.36m stern trim in water of reciprocal weight density 1 m3/tonnef:

Length BP 170m
Designed trim 0.75m by stern
Displacement 8070 tonnef

CB abaft amidships 0.73m

CF abaft amidships 6.22m

TPC 27.8 tonnef /cm

MCT 21,000 tonnef/m per metre

Calculate (a) the true displacement, (b) the new draught and trim when the ship
puts to sea in water of reciprocal weight density 0.981 m3/tonnef.

85m 85m

w, 0.36m trim

Fig. 3.38

Solution: As shown in Fig. 3.38, because the hydrostatic curves assume a 0.75m
trim, they overestimate the displacement by the shaded layer of thickness

6.22
To * (0.75 — 0.36) = 0.014m
This layer is composed of | m3/tonnef water, so that the relevant TPC is

27.8 » OSB Sora)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 105 ---
84 Basic ship theory

and the displacement of the layer

100 x 0.014 x 27.8 x ee = 37.9 tonnef

Now the displacement to WL = 8070 x 0.975
= 8070 — 8070 a)
= 7868 tonnef

«. displacement to W,L; (and W2L2) = 7868 — 37.9 = 7830 tonnef.
In moving from 1.0 to 0.981 water, which is more buoyant, there is a parallel rise:

Volume of layer = 7830(1 — 0.981) = 149 m3

This is a layer of 1.00 water, weight

149
To™ 149 tonnef
. 0.975
TPC in 1.00 water = 27.8 (Fa)
. 149
-. layer thickness = 78x0975 = 5.5cm

Moment causing trim = 149(6.22 — 0.73) = 818 tonnef/m

0.975
Trim occurs in 0.981 water for which MCT by | m = 21,000 x 0981

818 0.975

21,000 x 0.981 x 100 87cm

*. trim by stern

Fig. 3.39

* Note the important artifice used to obtain the displacement to WL by calculating the difference by
pocket calculator.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 106 ---
Flotation and trim 85

Change in mean draught due to 3.87 cm trim by stern

6.22
=—T70 x 3.87 = —0.14cm

total reduction in mean draught = 5.64cm
-, in water of RWD 0.981 m?/tonnef

mean draught = 5.18m

stern trim = 0.4m.

Problems

1.

(a) Calculate the reciprocal weight density of petrol in m?>/MN, given that
its specific gravity is 0.70.

(b) A pressure of 3.75 MPa is experienced by a submarine. If 1 lb =
0.4536kg and | in. = 2.54cm, convert this pressure to Ibf /in?. Put
g=981 m/s.

A floating body has a constant triangular section, vertex downwards and has

a constant draught of 12 m in fresh water, the breadth at the waterline being

24m. The keel just touches a quantity of mud of specific gravity 2. The water

level now falls 6m. How far will the body sink into the mud?

A wallsided ship goes aground on a mudbank so that its draught marks

record a mean draught of 2.13 m. Before going aground, the draught of the

ship in salt water was 2.69 m. The area of the waterplane is 388.3 m?. What
volume of oil of specific gravity 0.92 should be pumped out to free the ship?

Supposing, before pumping can begin, the tide falls a further metre and
the ship sinks a further 50cm. into the mud, displacing a total of 53.77 m3 of
mud. What would be the reciprocal weight density of the mud?

A homogeneous wooden pontoon of square section, having a specific gravity

of 0.5 is made to float in fresh water with its sides vertical by covering one of

its faces completely with a strip of metal having a specific gravity of 8.0.
Show that G coincides with M if the thickness of the strip is approxi-

mately one ninetieth (35) of its width.

. A model of a ship is built to float in water of 9823 N/m? weight density. It

has the following geometric properties:

Length BP, 1.83m; Area of waterplane, 4461 cm?
Draught, 14cm; Trans. MI of waterplane, 5.182 x 10-7 m4
KB, 7.62cm; Volume of displacement, 68 x 10-3 m3

The centre of gravity as built is 18.29cm above the keel. Where must a
weight of 111 N be placed to bring G below M, presuming the model to be
wallsided at the waterline?

The TPC (tonnef per centimetre) of a wallsided ship floating at a draught of
2.75 m is 9.40. Its displacement at this draught is 3335 tonnef and the VCB is

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 107 ---
86

10.

ll.

12.

Basic ship theory

1.13m below the waterline. The centre of gravity of the ship is 3.42m
above the keel. The transverse second moment of area of the waterplane

is 7820 m*.

Calculate the shifts of B and G and the new position of M when a load of
81.2 tonnef is placed 3.05 m off the centreline on a deck 8.54m above the
keel and by constructing the movements on squared paper, estimate, to the
nearest degree, the heel of the ship.

. The half ordinates of the waterplane of a barge, 50 m long, are 0.0, 3.0, 4.5,

5.0, 4.2 and 1.0m. Its volume of displacement is 735m? and the CG is
2.81 m above the keel. The draught is 3.0m.

A block of SG 7.0, having a volume of 10m? has to be raised from the
deck in a cage. Using an approximate formula for the position of B,
estimate the height to which the weight can be raised before G is higher
than M.

. The values of MN/m immersion of a ship at the waterlines, which are

1.52m apart, are given below. In addition, there is an appendage having
a displacement of 14.75 MN with its centre of buoyancy | metre below 7
WL.

Waterline 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
MN/cm 0.76 (0.72 (0.66 0.60 0.53 0.42 0.18

Calculate the displacement of the ship and the vertical position of the
centre of buoyancy of the ship.

. The values of MN/m of the waterlines of a vessel, which are 2.13 m apart,

are:

WL 6 54 5 4 3 2 1
MN/cm 0.08 0.17 0.25 0.34 0.42 0.49 0.52

If there is a 112 tonnef appendage whose c.b. is 0.91 m below 6WL, find
the displacement and the position of the CB of the whole vessel.
A yacht of mass displacement 9.5 tonnes to 1 WL in fresh water has a CB
0.25m below | WL. If the distance between WLs is 0.15 m, plot a curve of
VCB against draught. The areas of A, 1, 2 and 3 WLs are respectively 28.4,
28.0, 26.8 and 25.2 m*. Quote VCB at 24 WL.
A guided missile destroyer is 155m long BP and displaces 6228 tonnef in
salt water when the draught mark readings are 4.53 m. forward and 4.66 m
aft. The distances of the draught marks from amidships are 70.1 m forward
and 83.8m aft. The second moment of area of the waterplane is
0.71 x 10° m* about the centre of flotation which is 1.52 m abaft amidships.
The waterplane area is 1626 m7.

Calculate the new draughts when 142 tonnef of missiles are embarked at
a mean distance of 57.9m abaft amidships. Illustrate on a bold diagram,
the forces and movements involved and state any assumptions made.
The longitudinal moment of inertia about the CF of the waterplane of a
depot ship floating in fresh water is 1.64 x 10°m*. The length BP is 208 m
and the draught marks are 9.75m abaft the FP and 2.44m abaft the AP.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 108 ---
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Flotation and trim 87

The area of the waterplane is 4459 m?. Draught marks read 5.26 m. forward
and 6.77 m aft.
When 451 tonnef of oil with its c.g. 61m abaft amidships are pumped
out, the reading of the after marks is observed to change to 5.14m.
Deduce the position of the CF of the waterplane and the reading of the
forward marks.
For a mean draught of 4.0m with a 0.5 m trim by the stern, the ship’s book
shows a destroyer to have the following particulars:

displacement, mass = 2300 tonne
TPC = 9.10
MCT BP = 3010 tonnef/m

CF abaft amidships =6.85m
CB abaft amidships = 2.35m

The ship is 102 m BP and is floating where the water has an SG = 1.02 at
draughts of 3.50 m forward and 4.50 m aft.

Find, to the nearest half centimetre the draught at the propellers, which

are 13 m forward of the AP, when the ship has moved up river to water of
SG = 1.01.
A ship, displacement 7620 tonnef, floats at draughts of 4.10 m forward and
4.70 m aft. The forward marks are 2.1 m aft of the FP and the after marks
are 19.8m forward of the AP. The ship is 170m between perpendiculars,
has a tonnef per centimetre of 22.4 and the CF is 5.8m aft of amidships.
Determine the new draughts at the marks if a weight of 100 tonnef is placed
18.3 m forward of amidships.

One metre trim moment BP = 20,700 tonnef m.

The following are the particulars of an aircraft carrier: Displacement =
44,700tonnef, mean draught BP =11.70m trim by stern between
marks = 2.23m, TPC = 33.7, MCT 1cm = 3.06 MN/m. CF abaft amid-
ships = 12.2m, LBP=219.5m, forward marks abaft FP=10m, after
marks before AP = 15.8m

Calculate the new draughts at the marks when 538 tonnef of aircraft are
embarked with their c.g. 79.25 m before amidships.
A box-shaped barge of length 20m beam 5m and mean draught 1.45m
floats with a trim of 30 cm by the stern in water of specific gravity 1.03. If
it moves into water of SG = 1.00, what will be its new draughts forward
and aft?
The buoy mooring cable on a badly moored vessel is vertical and just taut
when it has an even draught of 3m. The vessel is 50m long and has a
TPM = 250 and CF 4m abaft amidships. MCT is 1300 tonnef m. The
mooring cable passes over the bow bullring 5m before the FP.

Calculate the new draughts at the perpendiculars when the tide has risen
0.8m.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 109 ---
88

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

Basic ship theory

A cargo ship, displacing 5588 tonnef, floats at draughts of 4.57 m forward
and 5.03m aft, measured at marks 70.1 m forward of and 51.8m abaft
amidships.

The vessel grounds on a rock 22.9m forward of amidships. What is the

force on the bottom when the tide has fallen 30cm and what are then the
draughts at the marks? TPC = 0.204 MN/cm; CF is 4.57m abaft amid-
ships; MCT BP is 1560 MN/m per m; LBP is 146m.
The draught marks of a ship, 61m long BP, are 6.1m aft of the FP and
12.2 m before the AP. The MN per m immersion is 3.570 and the one metre
trim moment BP is 7.66 MN/m. The CF is 2.45 m abaft amidships and the
draught mark readings forward and aft are respectively 2.67 and 3.0m.

The vessel goes aground on a ridge of rock 9.15 m from the FP. If the tide
is falling at an average rate of 81cm/hr, how long will it be before the
freeboard at the AP is reduced by 1.22 m?

What will then be the draught mark readings?

A ship 110m long, has a design trim of 0.61 m by the stern, an after cut-up
22.9 m from the after perpendicular and a KG of 4.88 m. When the after cut-
up just touches level blocks, the trim out of normal is measured as 0.91 m by
the stern and the water level in the dock is 4.05 m above the blocks.

Calculate (i) the initial displacement and LCG; (ii) the force on the after
cut-up and the water level above the blocks when the ship just sues all
along.

Hydrostatic data for design trim:
Mean draught Displacement LCB VCB_ LCF BM.

(m) (tonnef) (m aft) (m) (m aft) (m)
3.65 2245 2.30 2.25 6.61 288
3.50 2100 1.98 2.15 6.52 302
3.35 1970 1.72 2.07 6.33 313
3.20 1830 1.70 1.98 6.00 326

A new class of frigates has the following hydrostatic particulars at a mean
draught of 4m as calculated for water of 1025kg/m?: TPC = 7.20,
MCT = 3000 tonnef/m, CF abaft amidships = 4m, CB abaft amidships
= 1m, displacement = 2643 tonnef.

When one of the class was launched at Southampton, where the mass
density of water is 1025kg/m’, it took the water with a mean draught of
3.98 m and a stern trim of 0.6m.

Supposing it to be in an exactly similar condition, how would you expect
a sister ship to float after launch on the Clyde, where the water has a
specific gravity of 1.006?

All draughts are at the perpendiculars 120m apart.

A ship of 5080 tonnef and 152.4 m between perpendiculars, has its centre of
gravity 1.5m abaft amidships, floats in salt water of 0.975 m?/tonnef and
has draughts of 3.12 m at the forward perpendicular and 4.42 m at the after
cut-up, which is 9.14m before the after perpendicular.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 110 ---
23.

24.

25.

Flotation and trim 89

Estimate the draughts before docking in water of reciprocal weight
density 0.995 m3/tonnef.

The rate of immersion is 20 tonnef per cm, MCT one metre is 7619
tonnef/m increasing at the rate of 2000 tonnef/m per metre increase in
draught. The centre of flotation is 7.62 m abaft amidships.

A Great Lakes bulk carrier has hydrostatic curves drawn for water
of reciprocal weight density 1 m3/tonnef, which show the following infor-
mation:

Mean draught BP 8.53m 9.75m
Displacement (tonnef) 24,647 28,481
28,481 Trim by stern 30cm = 30cm

TPC (tonnef/cm) 31.36 31.52
MCT BP (tonnef/m) 9447 9496
CF forward of midships 1.16m 0.67m
CB aft of midships 3.66m 2.44m

The draughts forward and aft in river water of reciprocal weight density
0.994 m3/tonnef are respectively 9.296 m and 9.601 m. The length between
perpendiculars is 176.8 m.

Calculate the draughts when the ship reaches the open sea.

The following are the half ordinates in m of a vessel for which the water-
lines are 1.75 m apart and ordinates 25m apart. Determine its volume and
the position of the centre of volume below 1 WL.

WLs
Ord. 5 4 3 2 #1
1 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 2 3 4 6
3 2 3 5 7 8
4 3 5 7 8 9
5 2 4 6 8 9
6 1 2 4 6 6
7 0 0 0 0 0

Given the breadths of the waterlines of a ship as shown below, work out the
displacement of the main body up to the 1 WL. The WLs are 2 m apart and
the ordinates 24m.

Breadths in metres at ordinates

FP 2 3 4 AP

1WL 1.1 (21.30 30.2 276 «4.4
2WL 08 20.7 29.9 26.7 I.
3WL 05 18.9 29.0 24.9 :

4WL 0.0 16.2 266 210 2.9

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 111 ---
90

26.

27.
28.

Basic ship theory

It is desired to fit a gun mounting weighing 20.3 tonnef to a ship without
altering the draught at the propellers which are 9.14 m forward of the after
perpendicular. The draughts are 2.44m forward and 2.74m aft and other
particulars of the ship before the gun is added are: LBP = 42.7 m, displace-
ment = 264 tonnef, MCT = 792 tonnef/m, CF abaft amidships = 2.13 m,
TPC = 2.24.

Where should the gun be mounted? What are the resulting draughts
forward and aft?
Construct a metacentric diagram for a vessel of rectangular cross-section.
Construct metacentric diagrams for prisms, apex downwards,

(a) having a parabolic cross-section 6m deep by 3m wide at the top;
(5) having a section of an isosceles triangle, half apex angle 15 degrees and
height 8m.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 112 ---
4 Stability

The term stability refers to the tendency of a body or system to return to its
original state after it has suffered a small disturbance. In this chapter we are
concerned at first with a very specific example of static stability whereby a ship
floating upright is expected to return to the upright after it has been buffeted for
example by wind or wave. If a floating body is very stable it will return quickly
to the upright and may engender motion sickness; if it is just stable a disturb-
ance which is not small may cause it to capsize. The stability therefore must be
just right in the range of conditions in which a vessel may find itself during its
operation and life, even damaged or mishandled.

EQUILIBRIUM AND STABILITY

A rigid body is said to be in a state of equilibrium when the resultant of all the
orces acting on it is zero and the resultant moment of the forces is also zero.
If a rigid body, subject to a small disturbance from a position of equilibrium,
ends to return to that state it is said to possess positive stability or to be ina
state of stable equilibrium. If, following the disturbance, the body remains in its
new position, then it is said to be in a state of neutral equilibrium or to possess
neutral stability. If, following the disturbance, the excursion from the equi-
ibrium position tends to increase, then the body is said to be in a state of
unstable equilibrium or to possess negative stability.
The ship is a complex structure and is not in the mathematical sense a rigid
body. However, for the purpose of studying stability it is permissible so to
regard it. Throughout this chapter the ship will be regarded as a rigid body in
calm water and not underway. If the ship is in waves or is underway there are
hydrodynamic forces acting on the ship which may affect the buoyancy forces.
This problem is discussed briefly in later sections.
Nevertheless, for stability purposes, it is usual to ignore hydrodynamic forces
except for high-speed craft, including hydrofoils. For fast motor boats the
hydrodynamic forces predominate in assessing stability.

For equilibrium, the buoyancy force and weight must be equal and the two
orces must act along the same straight line. For a floating body this line must
be vertical.

DISTURBANCE FROM STATE OF EQUILIBRIUM

Any small disturbance can be resolved into three components of translation
and three of rotation with reference to the ship’s body axes. The conventional
axes are defined as in Fig. 4.1, the positive directions being indicated by the
arrows. Consider each component of a disturbance in turn.

91

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 113 ---
92 Basic ship theory

7
N

van

7 |
4 \c
“oS

i. 7 >

N\ oo

Fig. 4.1 Body axes

Translation along the x-axis, which is horizontal, leads to no resultant force
so that the ship is in neutral equilibrium for this type of disturbance.

Translation along the y-axis also leads to no resultant force so that the ship is
in neutral equilibrium for this type of disturbance.

For a floating body, translation along the z-axis in the positive direction
results in an augmented buoyancy force which will tend to move the ship in the
negative sense of z, i.e. it tends to return the ship to its state of equilibrium and
the ship is thus stable for this type of disturbance. The special case of a totally
submerged body is considered later.

Rotation about the x-axis, heel, results in a moment acting on the ship about
which no generalization is possible and the ship may display stable, neutral or
unstable equilibrium.

Rotation about the y-axis, trim, leads to a condition similar to that for
heel.

Rotation about the z-axis, yaw, results in no resultant force or moment so
that the ship is in neutral equilibrium for this type of disturbance.

The above results are summarized in Table 4.1.

It is clear from Table 4.1 that the only disturbances which herein demand
study are the rotations about the x- and y-axes. In principle, there is no
distinction between these two but, for the ship application, the waterplane
characteristics are such that it is convenient to study the two separately. Also,
for small rotational disturbances at constant displacement any skew disturb-
ance can be regarded as compounded of

(a) the stability exhibited by the ship for rotations about the x-axis—referred
to as its transverse stability;

(5) the stability exhibited by the ship for rotations about the y-axis—referred
to as its longitudinal stability.

Note that, because the shape of the heeled waterplane is not usually symmet-
rical, pure rotation in the yz plane must cause a tendency to a small trim. While
this is usually of a second order and safely ignored, at large angles it becomes
important.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 114 ---
Stability 93

Table 4.1
Summary of equilibrium conditions

Axis — Equilibrium condition for

Translation along: Rotation about:

x Neutral Stable, neutral
or unstable

y Neutral Stable, neutral
or unstable

Zz Stable Neutral

Initial stability

Consider the irregular shaped body shown in Fig. 4.2 floating in a state of
equilibrium. In the equilibrium state, the centre of buoyancy, Bo, and the centre
of gravity, G, must lie on the same vertical line. If the body is now subjected to a
rotational disturbance, by turning it through a small angle / at constant displace-
ment, the centre of buoyancy will move to some new position, B. For conveni-
ence, in Fig. 4.2 the angular disturbance is shown as being caused by a pure
moment about G, but it will be realized that the condition of constant displace-
ment will, in general, require translational movements of G by forces as well.

The weight and buoyancy forces continue to act vertically after rotation but,
in general, are separated so that the body is subject to a moment A GZ where Z
is the foot of the normal from G on to the line of action of the buoyancy force.
As drawn, this moment tends to restore the body to the original position. The
couple is termed the righting moment and GZ is termed the righting lever.

Another way of defining the line of action of the buoyancy force is to use its
point of intersection, M, with the z-axis. As the angle (3 is indefinitely dimin-
ished M tends to a limiting position termed the metacentre. For small values of
G it follows that

Buoyancy force,A

moment

Fig. 4.2 Action of buoyancy force and weight for small rotational disturbance

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 115 ---
94 Basic ship theory

Applied Applied
| prone | moment | Applied
|M Buoyoncy
| force
G
/ Weight
Bur fe
ne Negative

Fig. 4.3 The three stability conditions

GZ = GMsin 3
~GMB

The distance GM is termed the metacentric height and is said to be positive
when M lies above G. This is the condition of stable equilibrium, for should M
lie below G the moment acting on the body tends to increase 3 and the body is
unstable. If M and G coincide the equilibrium is neutral (see Fig. 4.3).

ADJUSTMENT OF TRANSVERSE METACENTRIC HEIGHT BY SMALL CHANGES
OF DIMENSIONS

The ship’s form can be altered by increasing ordinates in the x, y and z
directions such that all dimensions in any one direction are altered in the same
ratio. This ratio need not be the same for all directions. This method of form
changing has the advantage of maintaining the coefficients of fineness unaltered
and is often used in the early stages of ship design. For instance, it may be
necessary to decrease draught at the expense of the beam to ensure that the ship
will be able to negotiate canals or harbour entrances. In this case,

A = (constant) x L x Bx T
Hence
log A = log(constant) + log L + log B + log T
and differentiating
dA db 4 dB 4 dT
A L° BT
Thus, if the percentage changes in the main dimensions are small, their sum

will provide the percentage change in the displacement.
Similarly as shown in Chapter 3,
— If 2

B
BM = vo (constant) x r

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 116 ---
Stability 95

and by the same process

dBM _,dB dT
BM B T
Also
dBM dBG+dGM
BM BM
_dBG+dGM
~ BG+GM

Some special cases are worth considering.

(a) Where it is desired to change beam only, the increase in displacement is
given by

dA = A—
B
and the effect on GM is deduced as follows:

dBG+dGM _ > dB
BM 8B
If it is assumed that KG remains unaltered then d BG = 0 and

dGM = 2BM .-—
B
Since, in general, BM is greater than GM the percentage increase in meta-
centric height is more than twice that in beam.
(b) If it is desired to keep the displacement and draught unaltered, the length
must be decreased in the same ratio as the beam is increased, that is

dL dB
LB
Provided the assumption that KG is unchanged remains true the change

in metacentric height is as above.
(c) To maintain constant displacement and length the draught must be changed

in accord with

dT dB
T  —~B

This change in draught may, or may not, cause a change in KG. There
are a number of possibilities two of which are dealt with below.

(i) KG = (constant) x T. But KB = (constant) x T also, i.e. BG =
KG — KB = (constant) x T.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 117 ---
96 Basic ship theory

It should be noted that these constants of proportionality are not neces-
sarily the same, hence

dBG dT dB
BG TB
It has been shown that
dBG +dGM dB dT 3dB
BG + GM BT B

Hence

dB dB
—BG +dGM = 3(BG + GM
B ( ) B

and
— dB
dGM = (4BG + 3GM) =
(ii) KG = constant. Since

BG =KG-— KB
in this case, the change in BG = d BG

= —(change in KB)
dT —_dB
=-KBS = KB
T B
As before
dBG+dGM = 3(BG +4 Gms
dB
dGM = (33BG+ 3GM — KB) >
dB

dGM = (4BG + 3GM — KG)

EXAMPLE 1. A ship has the following principal dimensions: L = 360m,
B=42m, T = 12m, A= 1200MN, KB =7m, KM = 21m, KG = 18m.

It is desired to reduce draught to 11m, keeping length and displacement
constant and coefficients of fineness constant. Assuming KG remains unaltered,
calculate the new GM and the new beam.

Solution:
dA _)_ db AB aT
A LB T
Hence
dBol . 42

 dB=2=3.5m.
B12 dB= 75 = 3.5m


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 118 ---
Stability 97

ie.
new beam = 45.5m.

dBM dB dT 1 1 1
—— = 2 2x t =
BM BT 12 12 4

dBM = 14x p= 3.5m.

Because KB is proportional to T

and
— 7
dKB = -—
12
Now
GM = KB+ BM -—KG

new GM = 3+ (-3) +3.5

=5.92m.

EFFECT OF MASS DENSITY

It is clear that a critical feature in the study of initial stability is the vertical
position of the centre of gravity. It is instructive to consider a homogeneous
rectangular block of material floating freely as shown in Fig. 4.4.

The density of the block must be less than that of the water in which it floats,
or else it would sink. If the density is C times that of the water, equating weight
and buoyancy shows that

C x LBH = LBT

Fig. 4.4 Homogeneous block floating freely

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 119 ---
98 Basic ship theory

ie.
T
C= —
H
Now for a rectangular block
— TT
KB=—
2
3 2
pm-L-184_ 8
V 12BLT 12T
—~ HA
KG=—
2
and
oa ow TOPO
GM KB+BM—-KG=7+ 557-3
_CH B _Hf
~ 2 '12CH 2
H B

=3C- D+ oH
The condition for positive stability is that
GM > 0

ie.
Hie B
=(C-1 >0
2 | )* DoH 12CH ~
Similar expressions can be derived for homogeneous blocks of other cross-
sectional shapes.

EXAMPLE 2. A rectangular block of homogeneous material is 20m long, 5m
wide and 5m deep. It is floating freely in fresh water with its longest dimension
horizontal. Calculate the range of specific gravity over which the block will be
unstable transversely.

Solution: As derived above, the block will be unstable if

2

H B
=—(C-1)+—— <0

2 | 12CH ~
ie.
5 25
3(C-D + pegs <?
1
C-14+--<0
+on<

6C*-6C+1<0

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 120 ---
Stability 99

When C = 0, the block has zero draught and the inequality is not satisfied,
i.e. the block is stable.

When C = 4, the left-hand side = $ — 3+ 1. This is less than zero so that the
inequality is satisfied.

When C = 1, the other possible extreme value, the inequality is not satisfied.

The block is therefore stable at extreme values of C but unstable over some
intermediate range. This range will be defined by the roots of the equation

6C? —-6C+1=0

t /(36-24) 64/12
12 12

6

C=

ie.
C = 0.211 or 0.789

Hence the block is unstable if the specific gravity lies within the range 0.211
to 0.789.

EFFECT OF FREE SURFACES OF LIQUIDS

It is quite a common experience to find it difficult to balance a shallow tray or
tin containing water. Stability is essentially a problem of balance, and it is
therefore necessary to investigate whether a tank of liquid in a ship affects the
ship’s initial stability. The problem is considered below in relation to transverse
stability, but similar considerations would apply to the case of longitudinal
stability.

In practice, a ship has tanks with several different liquids—fresh water for
drinking or for boilers, salt water for ballast, fuels of various types and
lubricating oils—so the problem must be examined with allowance made for
he fact that the density of the liquid may not be the same as that of the sea
water in which the ship is floating.

In the following, the subscript s is used to denote quantities associated with
he ship or the sea water in which she floats and the subscript ¢ to denote the
iquid or the tank in which it is contained.

Let the ship be floating initially at a waterline WL and let it be heeled
hrough a small angle ¢ to a new waterline WL). Since by definition the
surface of the liquid in the tank is free, it will also change its surface inclination,
relative to the tank, by the same angle ¢ (see Fig. 4.5).

In Chapter 3, it was shown that for small angles of inclination the transfer of
buoyancy is given approximately by the expression

I.
As ve? = pslog

It follows that, by similar arguments, the transfer of weight due to the
movement of the liquid in the tank is approximately

I
Ap ¢ = piled
‘T° Pelees

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 121 ---
100 Basic ship theory

Fig. 4.5 Liquid free surface

This being a transfer of weight opposes the righting moment due to the
transfer of buoyancy and results in the effective righting moment acting on
the ship being reduced to

ASGMs¢ — piled

Thus, if GMr is the effective metacentric height allowing for the action of the
liquid free surface

A.GMr¢ = A,GMs¢ — pledge
and therefore

anu. — aay _ pele
GMr¢ = GM, —
F <A, g

rarvi pe\ Le
= Gm, - (7)
° ("") Vs

It should be noted that the effect of the free surface is independent of the
position of the tank in the ship; the tank can be at any height in the ship, at any
position along its length and need not be on the middle-line. The effect is also
independent of the amount of liquid in the tank provided the second moment of
area of the free surface is substantially unchanged when inclined. A tank which
is almost empty or almost full can suffer such a change in second moment of
area and it is for this reason that if, during an inclining experiment (see later),
tanks cannot be completely full or empty they are specified to be half full.

It is usual to regard the free surface effect as being a virtual rise of the centre
of gravity of the ship, although it will be appreciated that this is merely a matter
of convention.

A similar effect can arise from the movements of granular cargoes stowed in
bulk such as grain. Here, however, there is no simple relation between the angle
of inclination of the ship and the slope of the surface of the cargo. At small
angles of heel the cargo is not likely to shift so there is no influence on initial
stability.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 122 ---
Stability 101

The effect of a free liquid surface on stability at larger angles of heel is
discussed later.

EFFECT OF FREELY SUSPENDED WEIGHTS

It is more difficult to balance a pole with a weight freely suspended from its top
than it is to balance the same pole with the same weight lashed securely to the
pole. It is of interest to the naval architect to know what effect weights
suspended freely in a ship have on the stability of the ship. Such a practical
situation arises when a ship unloads its cargo using its own derricks. Consider
the moment the cargo load is lifted from the hold before any translation of the
load has taken place. The effect on transverse stability will normally be more
critical than that on longitudinal stability, although the principles involved are
the same.

Referring to Fig. 4.6, let the weight W be suspended freely from a point S a
distance / above the centroid of mass of the weight. Let the ship be floating at a
waterline WL and consider it being heeled through a small angle ¢ to a new
waterline W,L;. The weight, being freely suspended, will move until it is again
vertically below S, i.e. its suspending wire will move through an angle ¢. Thus,
as far as the ship is aware the line of action of the weight of the cargo being
lifted always passes through S. Hence, the effect on the ship is as though the
weight W were placed at S.

Fig. 4.6 Freely suspended weight

It will be noted that this result is independent of the magnitude of the angle
of heel provided the movement of the suspended weight is not restricted in any
way.

THE WALL-SIDED FORMULA

A ship is said to be wall-sided if, for the angles of inclination to be considered,
those portions of the outer bottom covered or uncovered by the moving water-
plane are vertical with the ship upright. No practical ships are truly wall-sided,
but many may be regarded as such for small angles of inclination—perhaps up
to about 10 degrees.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 123 ---
102 Basic ship theory

Fig. 4.7 Wall-sided formula

Referring to Fig. 4.7, let the ship be inclined from its initial waterline WL to
a new waterline WL, by being heeled through a small angle ¢. Since the vessel
is wall-sided, WL and W,L, must intersect on the centre line.

The volume transferred in an elemental wedge of length 6L where the beam is

bis
(1 bob. PN.
(5x3 x stand) = (Fiano

Moment of transfer of volume for this wedge in a direction parallel to WL
b 2b.

= z tan@ z 6L

Hence, for the whole ship, moment of transfer of volume is
L 3

—tanddLl
) Do?

Hence, horizontal component of shift of B, BB’ is given by

L 73

1 pep
pe == f tanda
vJy 12"?

I —
=x = BMt
v ang ang

Similarly, vertical shift B’B” is given by

au 1 [Peo od
B/B =F J tan oy btan gdh
0
I

= tan? ¢ = BM tan? @
wv 2 ‘

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 124 ---
Stability 103

By projection on to a plane parallel to W,L;

GZ = BB’ cos ¢ + B’B” sind — BGsing

tan? d

= BM sin + sino] —BGsind

— __ BM
= sino| BM —BG+ = tan? 6|
ie.
—__ —. BM
GZ = sing [ow + = ta? 6|

For a given ship if GM and BM are known, or can be calculated, GZ can
readily be calculated using this formula.

Wall-sided vessel containing a tank with vertical sides containing liquid

Fig. 4.8 Wall-sided ship with liquid contained in a wall-sided tank

Let the density of the liquid in the tank be p times that of the water in which the
ship is floating.

Referring to Fig. 4.8, horizontal and vertical shifts of B will be as calculated
for the ship without a tank. In addition, however, the centroid of mass of the
liquid in the tank will suffer movements

— tk

gi = Vv, tang

and

I
Toff — _* t, 24
gg IV, an” @

Hence the centre of gravity of the ship, G, will suffer movements of

— he
Ga = Mew ty
Vane X PG = Pe tan
and

GG" = p se tan? @

s

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 125 ---
104 Basic ship theory

Thus, the presence of the free surface will effectively reduce GZ to GZ
where

az _« J lag _. 2). (eg _ tare
GZ; =sino| (GM - pL) t (BM ve) 7

EXAMPLE 3. Calculate the ordinates of the curve of GZ for a wall-sided ship up
to 15 degrees of heel given that GM = 3m and BM = 18m.

Solution:

—_ BM
Z = [ow + lan? 6| sind

GZ = [3 + 9 tan’ d] sing

Values of GZ for varying values of ¢ can be computed as in the table below.

g(deg) tand tan’d 9tan?d 349tan?@ sing GZ(m)

0 0 0 0 3 0 0

3 0.052 0.0027 0.0243 3.024 0.052 0.157

6 0.105 0.0110 0.0990 3.099 0.105 0.325

9 0.158 0.0250 0.2250 3.225 0.156 0.503
12 0.213 0.0454 0.4086 3.409 0.208 0.709
15 0.268 0.0718 0.6462 3.646 0.259 0.944

Complete stability
CROSS CURVES OF STABILITY

So far, only stability at small angles of inclination has been discussed. In
practice, it is necessary to have a knowledge of stability at large angles of
inclination, particularly in the transverse plane. In the following sections,
transverse stability at large angles is considered. In principle, the concepts are
equally applicable to longitudinal stability but, in practice, they are not nor-
mally required because of the relatively small angles of trim a ship can accept
for reasons other than stability.

Referring to Fig. 4.9, let the ship be floating initially at a waterline WL. Now
let it be heeled through some angle ¢ to a new waterline WL; such that the
displacement remains constant. The buoyancy force A will act through B; the
new position of the centre of buoyancy, its line of action being perpendicular to
WL). If Z, is the foot of the perpendicular dropped from G on to the line of
action of the buoyancy force then the righting moment acting on the ship is
given by AGZ;.

This is similar to the concept applied to stability at small angles of heel but, in
this case, it is not possible to make use of the concept of a metacentre as the
buoyancy force does not intersect the ship’s middle line plane in a fixed point.

It should be noted that, in general, a ship when heeled will also trim to
maintain its longitudinal equilibrium. This can usually be ignored but where it

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 126 ---
Stability 105

G

V "7
UZomerses wedge LLL

Fig. 4.9 Stability at large angles

is significant, the points shown in Fig. 4.9 must be regarded as projections of
the true points on to a transverse plane of the ship.

Since the displacement to WL, is the same as that to WL, it follows that the
volumes of the immersed and emerged wedges are equal.

Let

6

b,, by = centroids of volume of the emerged and immersed wedges

buoyancy force associated with immersed wedge

respectively

hy, hy = feet of perpendiculars from 5,52 on to Wi Li

R = Foot of the perpendicular from B on to the line of action of the buoyancy
force through B,.
Then

ABR = 6hyhy
and righting moment acting on the ship is given by
AGZ = ABR — ABGsin¢
=A alike — BGsing

This formula is sometimes known as Atwood’s Formula, although it was known
and used before Atwood’s time.

Unfortunately, G depends upon the loading of the ship and is not a fixed
position. It is therefore more convenient to think in terms of an arbitrary, but
fixed, pole S and its perpendicular distance SZ from the line of action of the
buoyancy force. SZ then depends only on the geometry of the ship and can be
calculated for various angles of heel and for various values of displacement
without reference to a particular loading condition. Since the position of S is

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 127 ---
106 Basic ship theory

07 A
06
08 o>
70°
80°
40°
04 90°
IN, 30°
1)
0.3
20°
0.2
10°
04 a
AY
0 1000 2000 3000 4000. 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000

Displacement

Fig. 4.10 Cross curves of stability

known, when G has been calculated for a particular condition of loading, GZ,
can always be calculated from the equation

GZ, =SZ+SGsing (S above G)

Where a whole range of ship conditions is required, it is usual to plot values
of SZ against displacement for each of a number of angles of inclination as
shown in Fig. 4.10. These curves are known as Cross Curves of Stability.

This form of plotting avoids the need to determine inclined waterplanes for
precise displacements. It is convenient usually to adopt a set of waterlines which
intersect at the same point on the ship’s middle line. Then, if a plot of SZ
against angle of inclination is required at a constant displacement Aj, this can
be obtained by reading off the SZ values along a vertical line AA, in Fig. 4.10.

If a whole range of ship conditions is not required, the SZ curve for constant
displacement can be obtained directly as follows:

Referring to Fig. 4.11, let WL be the upright waterline, W,L, the inclined
waterline at the same displacement and W2L) the waterline at the inclination of
W.L, passing through the intersection of WL with the centre line of the ship.

Let

6 = buoyancy of immersed or emerged wedge between WL and WL;
6; = emerged buoyancy between WL and W2L>

6. = immersed buoyancy between WL and W2L».

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 128 ---
Stability 107

Fig. 4.11 Derivation of SZ values for constant displacement

Then, buoyancy of layer between W,L; and W2L+ is 62 — 6; and let this force
act through point F) in W2L». If the layer is thin, then F, may be regarded as
the centroid of the waterplane W2Lp.

Let

b;, by be the centroids of the wedges between WL and WL;
b', b, be the centroids of the wedges 6, and 6)
hy, hy projections of 51,52 on to W2L2
hi, hi, projections of b},b, on to W2L2
Then

bia = 60h, + 60h) — (62 — 61) OF 2

DERIVATION OF CROSS CURVES OF STABILITY

It is now usual to derive data for the plotting of cross curves from a digital
computer. A glimpse at manual methods and machines now to be found only
in museums is worthwhile because they illustrate the principles on which com-
puter programs are written.

Integrator methods

The integrator was essentially a machine which measured the area lying within
a closed curve and the first and second moments of that area about a datum
line—the axis of the integrator. The integrator could be used in two ways.

The ‘all-round’ method

A body plan for the ship is prepared to as large a scale as is convenient for the
integrator to work with. On this body plan is marked the position of the
selected pole S, and radiating from S a series of lines representing the angles

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 129 ---
108 Basic ship theory

Fig. 4.12 Use of integrator in ‘all-round’ method

of heel for which SZ is to be measured. Then, on a separate sheet of tracing
paper is marked off a series of parallel lines to represent waterlines, spaced so as
to cover adequately the range of displacement over which it is desired to study
the ship’s stability. A line normal to the waterlines is drawn to represent the
centre line of the ship when upright.

For each angle to be studied, the tracing paper is set up over the body plan
with the ‘centre line’ passing through S and the ‘waterlines’ at the correct angle
and covering the required range of draught. The integrator is then set up so that
its axis lies along the ‘centre line’ drawn on the tracing paper—see Fig. 4.12.

Then, provided the scaling factors to be applied to the dial readings have
been accurately assessed, the integrator can be used to determine the area
shown cross-hatched in Fig. 4.12 and the moment of that area about the axis
of the integrator. This can be repeated for each section of the ship. If a Simpson
body plan is used, the areas and moments must be set out in tabular form,
multiplied by the appropriate factor and summated to give the total volume of
the ship up to the chosen waterline and the moment about the line through S.
Displacement and SZ follow and the process can be repeated for each waterline
and then for other angles of heel having adjusted the position of the body plan
below the tracing paper. All the data required for plotting the cross curves of
stability are now available except insofar as it may be necessary to allow for
appendages.

If a Tchebycheff body plan is used then, since the multiplying factor is the
same for all sections of the ship, it is possible to move the integrator round all
sections in turn and note only the difference between the first and final readings
on the dials. In the same way, the number of readings involved with a Simpson
body plan can be reduced by dealing with all sections having the same multi-
plier without stopping.

The ‘figure of eight’ method

This method makes use of the fact that the only differences between the upright
and an inclined condition are the immersed and emerged wedges. By passing
the integrator point round these two wedges in opposite senses—i.e. in a figure

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 130 ---
Stability 109

Fig. 4.13 ‘Figure of eight’ method

of eight motion as in Fig. 4.13—the moment of transfer of buoyancy and the
change in displacement are obtained.

Barnes’s method

This method makes use of the general formula derived above for the transfer of
buoyancy, viz.

bhyhy = 6;Oh, + 50h) — (62 — 6) OF>

and the various terms are evaluated using radial integration.

Intermediate
waterlines
throughO.

Fig. 4.14 Radial integration for Barnes’s method of deriving statical stability data

By considering the element of angle éa in Fig. 4.14 and applying the prin-
ciples of radial integration

ao cam . fY feta, 2 144 2n
6,;Oh), + 6,0h, = 51 da— + =15 da | cos(¢ — a) dx
0 Jo [2 32 3

L po 734.73
[ [ (2 + 2) cos(¢ — a) dx da
0 Jo 3

This double integral can be evaluated by drawing intermediate radial water-
lines at equal increments of heel and measuring the offsets r, at the appropriate
stations. The same process can be followed to evaluate


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 131 ---
110 Basic ship theory

L poy,
= [ [ =I5 da dx
o Jo 2
L poy
op = [ [ =r dadx
0 Jo 2!

The area and first moment of area of waterplane W2L> are given by the
expressions

L
Area = [ rgdx
0

First moment of area about fore and aft axis through 0

Lp
= 2 dx

By dividing the moment by the area the value of OF) is found.
Substituting in Atwood’s formula

z- (2% + 60h}, — (6) — 6))OF>
A

) —BSsing

Evaluating this expression for various values of ¢ gives the values of SZ at
constant displacement.

An adaptation of Barnes’s method, if a whole range of ship displacements are
to be covered, would be to find the displacement A, corresponding to waterline
W2L, through O and the corresponding SZ, viz:

Ag =A+&- 6

— (80h, +60h\)

SZ, = (cae) _BSsind
Ase

These values correspond to those obtained by the integrator method.

Reech’s method

Let B, and M, be the positions of the centre of buoyancy and metacentre
corresponding to inclined waterplane W,,.L,. From the definition of pro-meta-
centre (see p. 20), if B, moves to Bays. for a very small additional inclination
Bo Bassa = BaMada,. and By By, 5. is parallel to W,L,

6z = —B,M, sina da

It follows by radial integration that from waterplane W,L, the position of By
relative to B can be expressed as (y, z) where

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 132 ---
Stability 111

The negative sign for z signifies only that B, is ‘higher’ than B.
Hence

SZ = ycos¢ —zsing — BSsing
Q cod
= cos of B.M, cosada + sin of B,M, sinada — BSsing
0 0

To evaluate this expression, it is necessary to determine a series of inclined
waterlines at constant displacement and for each waterplane obtain the value of
BM by finding the values of the second moment of area and dividing by the
volume of displacement.

Use of model to obtain curve of statical stability

It has been noted that one limitation of the methods described above to
determine the statical stability of a ship is the neglect of trim induced by the
heeling of the ship. This can be overcome by finding the true equilibrium
waterplane at each inclined waterplane, but this leads to considerable compli-
cation. One method of automatically allowing for the effects of trim is to use a
scale model of the ship, applying to it known heeling moments and noting the
resulting angles of heel.

Normally, the expense of making an accurately scaled model is not justified,
but the method can be used where a model already exists for other purposes
such as the conduct of ship tank tests. The method is particularly useful where
there are large changes in waterplane shape for small changes in heel. Such


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 133 ---
112 Basic ship theory

changes can occur with forms which have large rise of floor, very rounded
bilges, and/or long well-rounded cut-ups.

Prohaska’s method
The stability lever GZ can be considered as composed of two parts, viz:
GZ = GMsing + MS
The quantity MS, which, in a projection on a transverse plane, is the distance
from the upright metacentre to the line of action of the buoyancy force, is

termed the residuary stability lever (see Fig. 4.16). For convenience in non-
dimensional plotting, a coefficient Crs is employed for which

MS
BMupright

Crs =

Fig. 4.16

By the use of displacement sheets, the co-ordinates of the centres of buoy-
ancy for 90 and 180 degrees inclination can be calculated relative to those for
the upright ship. Also, the metacentric radii for 0, 90 and 180 degrees can be
calculated. Using this data and other geometric form data, the derivation of
the residual stability curve can be reduced to a calculation in tabular form. The
tables used are based on calculations performed on forty-two forms having
form characteristics covering the usual merchant ship field, backed up by
mathematical treatments assuming that the stability curve can be approximated
by a trigonometric series. By its nature the method is approximate, but for
general ship forms lying within the range of parameters considered, accuracy
comparable with that achieved by the so-called ‘exact’ methods is obtained.

CURVES OF STATICAL STABILITY

It was explained earlier, that it is usually convenient to derive cross curves of
stability from purely geometric considerations by making use of an arbitrary

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 134 ---
Stability 113

0.4

0.3

Righting lever, GZ

0.2

0.1

¢ =I radian

(0) 10 20 30 40 50 60

Angle of heel (degrees)

70 80 90

Fig. 4.17 Curve of statical stability

pole about which to measure righting moments. It was also seen, that it
simplifies the work in deriving stability curves if displacement is allowed to
vary as the ship is inclined and if both displacement and righting lever are
calculated for each waterline.

For practical applications, however, it is necessary to present stability in
the form of righting moments or levers about the centre of gravity, as the ship
is heeled at constant displacement. Such a plot will in general appear as in
Fig. 4.17 and is known as a statical stability curve.

The curve of statical stability, or GZ curve as it is commonly called, is
derived from the cross curves of stability by setting up a vertical line such as
AA, for displacement A; shown on Fig. 4.10. The SZ value corresponding to
each angle of inclination plotted can be read off and then, using Fig. 4.9 and the
SG known for the particular loading of the ship,

GZ = SZ -—SGsind

MAIN FEATURES OF THE GZ CURVE

Certain features of the GZ curve are of particular significance and are useful para-
meters with which to define the stability possessed by a given design. They include:

(a) Slope at the origin. For small angles of heel, the righting lever is propor-
tional to the angle of inclination, the metacentre being effectively a fixed

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 135 ---
114 Basic ship theory

point. It follows, that the tangent to the GZ curve at the origin represents
the metacentric height.

(b) Maximum GZ. This is proportional to the largest steady heeling moment
that the ship can sustain without capsizing, and its value and the angle at
which it occurs are both important.

(c) Range of stability. At some angle, often greater than 90 degrees, the GZ
value reduces to zero and becomes negative for larger inclinations. This
angle is known as the angle of vanishing stability and the range of angle (OC
in Fig. 4.17) for which GZ is positive is known as the range of stability. For
angles less than this, a ship will return to the upright state when the heeling
moment is removed.

0.6

SZ values from
figure 410 for A=A,

0.5

GZ value for ¢ =¢

& gf

¢

SZ and GS Sin
°
w@

0.2

0.1

0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Angle of heel (degrees)

Fig. 4.18

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 136 ---
Stability 115

(d) Angle of deck edge immersion. For most ship forms, there is a point of
inflexion in the curve (shown in Fig. 4.17 as occurring at angle OA)
corresponding roughly to the angle at which the deck edge becomes
immersed. In general, of course, the angle at which the deck edge is
immersed varies along the length, but is within a fairly narrow band for
the larger sections amidships which exert most influence upon the stability.
This point is not so much of interest in its own right as in the fact that it
provides guidance to the designer upon the possible effect on stability of
certain design changes.

(e) Area under the curve. The area under the curve represents the ability of the
ship to absorb energy imparted to it by winds, waves or any other external
agency. This concept is developed more fully later.

ANGLE OF LOLL

A special case arises when GM is negative but GZ becomes positive at some
reasonable angle of heel. This is illustrated in Fig. 4.19 as ¢ . If the ship is
momentarily at some angle of heel less than ¢;, the moment acting due to GZ
tends to increase the heel. If the angle is greater than ¢), the moment tends to
reduce the heel. Thus the angle ¢ is a position of stable equilibrium. Unfortu-
nately, since the GZ curve is symmetrical about the origin, as ¢, is decreased,
the ship eventually passes through the upright condition and will then suddenly
lurch over towards the angle ¢; on the opposite side and overshoot this value
before reaching a steady state. This causes an unpleasant rolling motion which
is often the only direct indication that the heel to one side is due to a negative
GM rather than to a positive heeling moment acting on the ship.

As a special case, consider a wall-sided vessel with negative GM. In this case,

GZ = sin ¢(GM + $BM tan? ¢)
GZ is zero when sing=0. This merely demonstrates that the upright

condition is one of equilibrium. GZ is also zero when GM + 3}BM tan’ ¢ = 0.
i.e. when

Angle of loll

Fig. 4.19 Angle of loll ¢,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 137 ---
116 Basic ship theory

( 76M)
tan@g=x -=
1 BM

Also, in this case, the slope of the GZ curve at ¢, will be given by

= = cos ¢(GM + 4BM tan’ ¢) + sin ¢ BM tan ¢ sec’ ¢

=0+BMtan’ ¢)/cos¢, (putting ¢ = 1)
= —2GM/ cos ¢1

EFFECT OF FREE LIQUID SURFACES ON STABILITY AT LARGE ANGLES
OF INCLINATION

It was shown earlier, that the effect of a free liquid surface on initial stability is
equivalent to a reduction in the metacentric height of

pe) Te
ps] Vs

This was derived by considering the transfer of weight of liquid which
occurred in opposition to the righting moment induced by the transfer of
buoyancy at the waterplane. The same principle can be applied to any form
of tank at any angle of heel.

Referring to Fig. 4.20, let a ship initially floating at waterline WL be inclined,
at constant displacement, through angle ¢. Then if wl is the upright free surface
of liquid in the tank shown, the surface when inclined becomes wj]; also at
angle ¢ to wl.

Knowing the shape of the tank, the transfer of weight can be computed and
translated into an effective reduction in the righting moment due to transfer of
buoyancy in the wedges between WL and W/L). It follows, by analogy with the

Fig. 4.20 Effect on stability of free surface at large angles of heel

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 138 ---
Stability 117

— Uncorrected curve

ase Irad
oo

Fig. 4.21 GZ curve corrected for free surface

upright case, that the reduction in s/ope of the GZ curve at angle ¢ will be given

by

where (J;),, is the moment of inertia of the liquid surface at angle ¢.

If the tank is not a simple geometric shape, the transfer of weight can be
computed using an integrator or any of the other methods discussed earlier for
the derivation of cross curves of stability. Even so, it is fairly tedious to evaluate
for sufficient angles of inclination in order to define the effective GZ curve
precisely, and it is common for some simplifying assumption to be made.

It is common practice to compute the metacentric height and the GZ value
for 45 degrees heel allowing for the free surface. The effective GZ curve up to
45 degrees inclination is then constructed by drawing the curve through the
45 degree spot, following the general character of the uncorrected curve and
fairing into the modified tangent at the origin. For angles greater than 45 degrees,
the reduction of GZ at 45 degrees is applied as a constant correction. This
method is illustrated in Fig. 4.21.

SURFACES OF B, M, FANDZ

When a body floats in water, there are unique positions of the centre of buoy-
ancy, metacentre, centre of flotation of the waterplane and Z, the foot of the
perpendicular from the c.g. on to the line of the buoyancy force. If the body is
rotated at constant displacement, these points will, in general, move to new
positions. Considering all possible inclinations B, M, F and Z trace out surfaces

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 139 ---
118 Basic ship theory

Fig. 4.22 Sphere floating in fluid at WL

which are fixed relative to the body. The simplest case to consider is that of a
sphere as in Fig. 4.22.

Let the sphere float at a waterline WL as shown (the argument is unaffected
if WL is above the centre of the sphere, O). Then, by arguments of symmetry
it follows that for any inclination, OB will be constant, OF will be constant,
F being the foot of the perpendicular from O on to WL, and M will always be at
O. Thus, in this case, M isa single point and the surfaces traced out by Band F are
spheres of radius OB and OF, respectively. As the sphere rotates, the angle OZG
is always a right angle. Hence, the locus of Z is a sphere with OG as diameter.

Interest, as far as a ship is concerned, is usually centred on transverse
stability, i.e. on rotation at constant displacement about a fore and aft axis.
In this case, B, M, F and Z trace out lines across the surfaces discussed above.
The projections of these traces on to a plane normal to the axis of rotation are
termed the curves of B, M, F and Z and it is of interest to study certain of their
characteristics. For a symmetrical ship form, of course, all curves will be
symmetrical about the middle line of the ship.

B curve or curve of buoyancy

Mo

Fig. 4.23 Curves of B, M, F and Z

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 140 ---
Stability 119

Let By and By;55 be the positions of the centre of buoyancy corresponding to
inclinations ¢ and ¢+6¢. Then BBy 5 is parallel to the line joining the
centroids of volume of the two wedges between the waterplanes at ¢ and
o + 6¢. In the limit, BB ys5 becomes the tangent to the curve of buoyancy
and this tangent must be parallel to the corresponding waterplane.

The projections of the lines of action of buoyancy through By and By, 54 inter-
sect in a point which, in the limit, becomes Mg, called the prometacentre and
I,

BM, = v

@

The co-ordinates of the point on the curve of buoyancy corresponding to any
given inclination ¢ have already been shown to be

@
v= | BaM, cosada
0

@
z= -| BuM, sinada
0

The M curve or metacentric curve

The metacentric curve is the projection of the locus of pro-metacentres, for
inclinations about a given axis, on to a plane normal to that axis.

Let WL; and W2L) be two waterlines at relative inclination of 6¢ and let B,
and Bo, M; and Mz be the corresponding positions of the centre of buoyancy
and pro-metacentre. Let Cy be the centre of curvature of the metacentric curve
at M;. Then CyM, is normal to B,M, and therefore parallel to WiL1.

Referring to Fig. 4.24

MM) = 6(BjM,) = CaM 66

Fig. 4.24 Metacentric curve

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 141 ---
120 Basic ship theory

and in the general case

AA dByM, 1 diy
CuMo = —~ag” = Fedo

The F curve or curve of flotation

For very small changes in inclination successive waterplanes intersect in a line
through their centres of flotation. In the limit, therefore, the waterplane at any
angle is tangential to the curve of flotation at the point corresponding to that
inclination.

Me

Fig. 4.25 Curve of flotation

Let WL; and W2L2 be waterplanes at a relative inclination 6¢ and B; and
B», F; and F, and M, and M; their respective centres of buoyancy and flotation
and pro-metacentres. Let the lines through F; and F) normal to W,L; and
W>L>, intersect in Cr which, in the limit, as 6¢ diminishes, will become the
centre of curvature of the F curve.

Now, consider a small layer added to each waterline, the added volume of
buoyancy in each case being 6V. Then let B, By take up new positions B,B4 and
so on. Effectively, 6V is added at F; and F> for the two inclinations and Bj), Bi
and F, will lie on a straight line as will Bo, BS and F.

By taking moments

Also B;B>, BiB’) and FF, are parallel, and

q

Vv

a

Ss
ll
a

1M, 6¢ = =6¢, if 6¢ is small.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 142 ---
Stability 121

By substitution, this becomes

Ne. wa,
Vtov oe — CrFi6e
vg, te

5g — 6
vee vere
From which it follows that, in the limit,
d/
CrF, ==
el av

This is known as Leclert’s theorem.

The Z curve

Fig. 4.26 Z curve

The Z curve is the projection on to a transverse plane of the foot of the
perpendicular from G on to successive lines of action of the buoyancy force.

Curves of B, M, F and Z for a typical ship

The form of the B, M, F and Z curves is illustrated in Fig. 4.27 for a 67.5m
ship. The principal features of this design are:

Deep displacement, (MN) 6.78

L.BP., (m) 67.5
Beam, (m) 7.58
Mean draught, (m) 2.23
Block coefficient 0.595
Prismatic coefficient 0.617

Waterplane coefficient 0.755


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 143 ---
122 Basic ship theory

Height above Bo

ny

0.8

0.4

° 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6 2.0 24
Distance from ML plane

Fig. 4.27

INFLUENCE OF SHIP FORM ON STABILITY

It has been shown how a designer, faced with a given form and loading
condition, can assess the stability characteristics of a ship. It is unlikely that
the first choice of form will satisfy the requirements completely. Initial stability,
maximum GZ and range may all be too great or too small. Perhaps one feature
alone may need modification. How then is the designer to modify the form to
produce the required result? The effect of small changes in principal dimensions
on initial stability has already been discussed, and if only such a change is
required this method might be adopted provided that the consequential
changes in stability at large angles are acceptable.

In general, however, there must be a certain amount of ‘trial and error’ in the
process. That is to say, the designer must make certain changes, re-calculate the
stability and assess what additional changes may be necessary. Computers are
used for these calculations as extensive stability data can be obtained in a very
short time. Indeed, if the range of forms the designer has to deal with is limited,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 144 ---
Stability 123

the computer can produce a ‘methodical series’ of forms from which the
designer can select a suitable design.

Although the designer cannot predict precisely the steps necessary to effect
a desired change in stability characteristics, it is essential to know the general
effect of changing the ship form in a specified manner. The following comments
are intended as a general qualitative guide to the changes that can be expected.
It will be appreciated that, in general, it is impossible to vary one parameter
alone without some consequential change being required in some other factor.

Length

If length is increased in proportion to displacement, keeping beam and draught
constant, the transverse KB and BM are unchanged. In general, increasing
length increases KG so reducing initial stability although this will not be the
case for a truly geometrically similar ship.

If length is increased at the expense of beam, there will be a reduction in
stability over the full range. If length is increased at the expense of draught, there
will, in general, be an increase in initial stability but a reduction at larger angles.

Beam
Of the form parameters which can be varied by the designer, the beam has the
greatest influence on transverse stability. It has been shown that

__ B
BM x
“F

Thus BM will increase most rapidly if beam is increased at the expense of the
draught. If freeboard remains constant, the angle of deck edge immersion will
decrease and stability at larger angles will be reduced. If the total depth of ship
remains constant, then stability will be reduced by the increase in BG and,
although this is offset by the increased beam at small angles, the stability at
larger angles will suffer.

Draught

Reduction in draught in proportion to a reduction in displacement increases
initial stability, leads to greater angle of deck immersion but reduces stability at
large angles.

Displacement

Changes in length, beam and draught associated with displacement are dis-
cussed above. If these parameters are kept constant then displacement increases
lead to a fatter ship. In general, it can be expected that the consequential filling
out of the waterline will more than compensate for the increased volume of
displacement and BM will increase. Fattening of the ship in this way is also
likely to lead to a fall in G. These changes will also, in general, enhance stability
at all angles.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 145 ---
124 Basic ship theory

Centre of gravity
The best way, but often the most difficult, of achieving improved stability at all
angles is to reduce the height of the centre of gravity above the keel. This is clear
from a consideration of the formulae used to derive GZ in earlier sections of
this chapter. What is perhaps not so immediately obvious, but which cannot be
too highly emphasized, is that too high a value of KG results in poor stability at
larger angles no matter what practical form changes are made.

The effect of change in KG, if not associated with any change of form, is
given directly by the relationship

GZ = SZ -—SGsind

For a more thorough review of the influence of form changes, the student is
advised to consult papers published in the various transactions of learned
bodies. The broad conclusion is that the ratios of beam to draught and depth
of ship have a comparatively greater influence on stability than that caused by
the variation of the fullness parameters of the forms.

The results of applying regressional analysis to data from 31 ships to obtain
expressions for Crs in terms of other hull parameters showed that the following
expressions give reasonable estimates at 30 degrees of heel

Crs = 0.8566 — 1.2262 KB/T — 0.035 B/T
Crs = —0.1859 — 0.0315 B/T + 0.3526 Cu

STABILITY OF A COMPLETELY SUBMERGED BODY

As in the case of surface ships there will be a position of rotational equilibrium
when B and G are in the same vertical line. Let us determine the condition for
stable equilibrium for rotation about a horizontal axis.

Since the body is completely submerged, the buoyancy force always acts
through B. Viewing this another way, in the absence of any waterplane BM
must be zero so that B and M become coincident. If the body is inclined
through an angle ¢, the moment acting on it is given by

ABG sin &

It is clear from Fig. 4.28, that this will tend to bring the body upright if B lies
above G. This then is the condition for stable equilibrium. If B and G coincide,
the body has neutral stability and if B lies below G it is unstable.

Both the transverse and longitudinal stability of a submerged body are the
same and the GZ curve becomes a sine curve as in Fig. 4.29. A submarine is
typical although the relative positions of B and G, and therefore the stability in
the two directions, may be changed by flooding or emptying tanks.

Another mode of stability of a completely submerged body which is of
interest is that associated with depth of submersion. If the body in Fig. 4.28
is initially in equilibrium, and is disturbed so as to increase its depth of
submersion it is subject to greater hydrostatic pressure. This causes certain
compression of the body which, if the body is more readily compressed

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 146 ---
Stability 125

Fig. 4.29 Statical stability curve for submarine

than water, leads to a reduction in the buoyancy force. The weight of the
body remains constant so a resultant downward force is created. This will tend
to increase the depth of submersion still further. In these circumstances
applicable to a submarine—the body is unstable in depth maintenance.

Generally, in the case of a submarine the degree of instability is no great
embarrassment and, in practice, the effect is usually masked by changes in water
density associated with temperature or salinity as depth changes. It becomes
important, however, with deep submergence vehicles.

Dynamical stability

The dynamical stability of a ship at a given angle of heel is defined as the work
done in heeling the ship to that angle very slowly and at constant displacement,
i.e., ignoring any work done against air or water resistance.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 147 ---
126 Basic ship theory

Righting moment —=

c | Ny Angle of heel —

Fig. 4.30

Consider a ship with a righting moment curve as shown in Fig. 4.30.
Let the righting moment at an angle of heel ¢ be My. Then, the work done in
heeling the ship through an additional small angle 6¢ is given approximately by

Mob
Hence, the total work in heeling to an angle ® is

©
M3d@
0

©
= AGZ,d¢
0

The dynamical stability at any angle, therefore, is proportional to the area
under the statical stability curve up to that angle.

There is an alternative way of determining the work done in heeling a ship.
Weight and displacement forces remain constant during the process but they
are separated vertically, thereby raising the potential energy of the ship.

Referring to Fig. 4.9, let B move to B,; when ship is heeled from waterline
WL to waterline WL). Increased vertical separation = B,Z; — BG. Hence,
dynamical stability at angle ¢ is given by

A(BiZ, — BG)

Let v be the volume of the immersed or emerged wedge, let their centroids of
volume be at b; and bz and let h; and hp be the feet of perpendiculars dropped
from b, and by on to WL.

Then
—— v(bjh; + boh
BR-= (bi is 2ho)
Now
B,Z; = B|R + BGcos&

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 148 ---
Stability 127

Therefore

BZ, = vehi * bah)

and the dynamical stability is given by
A v(b) hy + bzhy)

+BGcos®

— BG(I — cos ®)

This formula is known as Moseley’s Formula. Although this expression can
be evaluated for a series of angles of heel, and the curve of dynamical stability
drawn, its application is laborious without a computer. Dynamical stability
should not be confused with dynamic stability of course which is discussed in
Chapter 13.

Stability assessment
STABILITY STANDARDS

Having shown how the stability of a ship can be defined and calculated, it
remains to discuss the actual standard of stability to be aimed at for any
particular ship bearing in mind its intended service. For conventional ships,
the longitudinal stability is always high and need not be considered here. This
may not be true for offshore drilling barges and other less conventional vessels.

What degree of simple static stability is needed? Unless a ship has positive
stability in the upright condition, it will not remain upright because small
forces—from wind, sea or movements within the ship—will disturb it. Even if
it does not actually capsize, i.e. turn right over, it would be unpleasant to be ina
ship which lolled to one side or the other of the upright. Thus one need for
stability arises from the desire to have the ship float upright. Although, in theory,
a very small metacentric height would be sufficient for this purpose, it must be
adequate to cover all conditions of loading of the ship and growth in the ship
during its life. If the ship is to operate in very cold climates, allowance will have
to be made for the topweight due to ice forming on the hull and superstructure.

Next, it is necessary to consider circumstances during the life of the ship
which will cause it to heel over. These include

(a) The action of the wind which will be most pronounced in ships with high
freeboard or large superstructure;

(b) the action of waves in rolling the ship. This will be most important for those
ships which have to operate in large ocean areas, particularly the North
Atlantic;

(c) the action of the rudder and hull forces when the ship is manoeuvring;

(d) loading and unloading cargoes.

The ship may be subject to several of the above at the same time. In addition,
the ship may, on occasion, suffer damage leading to flooding or she may suffer
from shifting cargo in very rough weather. These aspects of the design are dealt
with in more detail in the next chapter.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 149 ---
128 Basic ship theory

If a ship experiences a heeling moment in perfectly calm water it would be
sufficient if the curve of statical stability had a lever in excess of that represented
by the heeling moment. In practice, it is also necessary to allow a certain reserve
of dynamical stability to enable the ship to absorb the energy imparted to it by
waves or by a gusting wind.

Certain relaxations are made for ships operating in coastal waters and for
ships in service, but for new design intact ships to operate in ocean areas the
following criteria are specified.

(a) Beam winds and rolling

A wind heeling arm curve is calculated and is superimposed on the statical
stability curve for the intact ship as in Fig. 4.31. A simple formula for calculat-
ing the heeling arm due to wind is

AV?
Heeling arm = 0.17 x 10° cos’ ¢m

Curve A = intact GZ curve
Curve B = wind heeling arm curve

Angle of inclination (degrees)

Fig. 4.31 Stability criteria for beam wind and rolling

where V = nominal wind velocity, knots (taken as 100 knots). A = projected
area (m?) of ship above waterline and / = lever arm from half draught to the
centroid of the projected area. A = displacement in MN.

More accurately, the formula

2
Heeling arm = 0.19 x 19-6 AE cost om

can be used when the wind speed V at each height above the sea surface is taken
from Fig. 9.25 for a nominal wind velocity of 100 knots. In this case, it is
necessary to divide A into a number of convenient horizontal strips and carry
out a vertical integration.

The angle ¢, at which the two curves cross, is the steady heel angle the ship
would take up if the wind were perfectly steady and there were no waves and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 150 ---
Stability 129

the corresponding righting arm is GZ,. To allow for the rolling of the ship the
curves are extended back to a point 25 degrees to windward of ¢, and the areas
A, and Az shown shaded in Fig. 4.31 are computed. For stability to be regarded
as adequate the following conditions are typically aimed for:

GZ, not more than 0.6 x GZmax
Area A, not less than 1.4 x Area A).

(b) Lifting of heavy weights over the side

4

Angle of inclination (degrees)

Fig. 4.32

Again, the heeling arm curve is superimposed on the statical stability curve
(Fig. 4.32) the heeling arm being taken as

Wa oo54
A

where W = weight of lift, a = transverse distance from centre line to end of
boom and A = displacement, including weight of lift.
The stability criteria applied by the USN are

GZ, not more than 0.6 x GZmax
¢s not greater than 15 degrees

Shaded area not less than 40 per cent of the total area under the statical
stability curve.
(c) Crowding of passengers to one side
The same formula and criteria are used as for case (5), except that, in this case,
W = weight of passengers
a = distance from centre line of ship to c.g. of passengers.
(d) Heeling during a high speed turn

When a ship is turning steadily, it must be acted upon by a force directed
towards the centre of the circle and of value

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 151 ---
130 Basic ship theory

A(steady speed)” AV?
g(radius of turn) gR

This problem is discussed in more detail in Chapter 13, but, approximately,
the heeling moment acting on the ship is given by

AV? (—~ T ;
aR (Ko-F) cose

The heeling arm curve is then

Ve(. T
1 (Ke-4) cos d

and can be plotted as in Fig. 4.32. The stability criteria adopted are as for case
(b) above.

So far, only minimum standards have been mentioned. Why not then make
sure and design the ship to have a very large metacentric height? In general, this
could only be achieved by considerably increasing the beam partially at the
expense of draught. This will increase the resistance of the ship at a given speed,
and may have adverse effects on stability at large angles of heel and following
damage. It will also lead to more violent motion in a seaway which may be
unpleasant to passengers and indeed dangerous to all personnel. In addition,
the larger beam may make it impossible to negotiate certain canals or dock
entrances. Hence the designer is faced with providing adequate but not exces-
sive stability.

PASSENGER SHIP REGULATIONS

Standards for passenger ships in the UK are laid out in the Merchant Shipping
(Passenger Ship Construction) Regulations. Typically they require

(a) The area under the GZ curve shall not be less than

(i) 0.055m rad up to 30 degrees

(ii) 0.09 m rad up to 40 degrees or up to the downflooding angle (the least
angle where there are openings permitting flooding)

(iii) 0.03 m rad between 30 degrees and angle (ii)

(b) GZ must be greater than 0.20 m at 30 degrees
(c) Maximum GZ must be at an angle greater than 30 degrees
(d) GM must be at least 0.15m.

THE INCLINING EXPERIMENT

It has been shown that, although much of the data used in stability calculations
depends only on the geometry of the ship, the position of the centre of gravity
must be known before the stability can be assessed finally for a given ship
condition. Since KG may be perhaps ten times as great as the metacentric
height, it must be known very accurately if the metacentric height is to be
assessed with reasonable accuracy.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 152 ---
Stability 131

KG can be calculated for a variety of conditions provided it is accurately
known for one precisely specified ship condition. It is to provide this basic
knowledge that the inclining experiment is carried out. The term ‘experiment’
is a misnomer in the scientific sense but it is universally used. It would be better
called a stability survey. The purposes of the inclining experiment are to
determine the displacement and the position of the centre of gravity of the ship
in an accurately known condition. It is usually carried out when the ship is as
nearly complete as possible during initial building and, in the case of warships,
may be repeated at intervals during her life as a check upon the changing
armaments, etc. For instance, an additional inclining may be carried out
following an extensive modernization or major refit.

The experiment is usually carried out by moving weights across the deck
under controlled conditions and noting the resulting angle of heel. The angles
are normally kept small so that they are proportional to the heeling moment,
and the proportionality factor provides a measure of the metacentric height.
The angle of heel is usually recorded using long pendulums rigged one forward
and one aft in the ship, perhaps through a line of hatches. The pendulum bobs
may be immersed in water or oil to damp their motion.

Conduct of an inclining experiment

Fig. 4.33 Movement of weights during an inclining experiment

The principal steps in the carrying out of an inclining experiment are:

(a) The ship is surveyed to determine weights to be removed, to come on board
or be moved for final completion.

(6) The state of all tanks is noted accurately.

(c) The draughts are accurately read at each set of draught marks, including
amidships, on both sides of the ship.

(d) The density of the water in which the vessel is floating is measured at a
number of positions and depths around the ship.

(e) Weights, arranged on the deck in four groups, shown in Fig. 4.33, are
moved in the following sequence:
weights A to a position in line with weights C
weights B to a position in line with weights D
weights A and B returned to original positions

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 153 ---
132 Basic ship theory

weights C to a position in line with weights A
weights D to a position in line with weights B
weights C and D returned to original positions
The weight groups are often made equal.
(f) The angle of heel is recorded by noting the pendulum positions before the
first movement of weight and after each step given above.

Analysis of results

Due to the shift of a weight w through a distance d, G will move parallel to the
movement of the weight to G’ where

GG = wd

Fig. 4.34 Analysis of results

Since GG’ is normal to the centre-line plane of the ship

GM = GG’'/tan@
_ wd
~ Atang

If the movement of each pendulum, length /, is measured as y on a horizontal
batten

tang =

IS

The displacement can be determined from the measurements of draught and
water density. The latter are averaged and the former are used to determine the
trim of the vessel. The amount of hog or sag present can be determined if the
ship is provided with amidship draught marks. When hog or sag is detected it is
usual to assume, in calculating the displacement, that the ship takes up a
parabolic curve. The mean draught is calculated from the draughts at the ends
of the ship and is increased or reduced by 70 per cent of the sag or hog
respectively. Similarly, it may be possible to find the extent of any stern drop.

Hence, GM can be calculated for each transfer of weight provided the
metacentre remains fixed up to the maximum angle of heel used. Typically,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 154 ---
Stability 133

this should be of the order of 3 or 4 degrees and presents no problem for most
ships. If equal weight transfers are made, this is readily confirmed if the angle
changes are equal. If unequal weight transfers are used, an approximate check
can be made by dividing the angles by the respective weights and comparing the
results. If it is suspected that the relationship between angle and heeling
moment is not linear, the results obtained must be plotted as a statical stability
curve and the tangent at the origin determined.

The data can be analysed in various ways. One possible method is to produce
a table of the asymmetric moment applied at each stage (7, m2, etc.) and the
corresponding pendulum deflections (d),d, etc.). The moment values are
squared and the moments and deflections multiplied together as illustrated
below:

Weight Applied — 1? Measured =m xd

movement moment deflection

(Fig. 4.33) m d

AtoC m m d md
BtoD m ms dy md
A and B returned 0 0 dy 0
CtoA —m4 my dy —ma4d4
DtoB —ms m ds —msds
C and D returned 0 0 dg 0

ne Somd

The average deflection per unit applied moment is given by )> md/ > im’.

It will be noted that, in this method of analysis, the deflections measured
when all weights are returned to their original positions play no part in the
analysis. They are used at the time of the experiment to indicate whether any
loose weights, or liquids in tanks have moved from one side to another.

The datum readings are used in a second method of analysis in which the
deflection of the pendulum per unit applied moment is calculated for each shift
of weights. This is illustrated below:

Weight Applied Measured = Change in

moment moment, deflection, deflection per

(Fig. 4.33) m d unit change of
moment

AtoC m d dy/my,

BtoD mM dy (dy — d\)/(my — m))

A and B returned 0 d; (ds — dy) /(0 — m2)

CtoA —m4 dy (dy — d3)/(—ma4)

DtoB —ms ds (ds — d4)/(—ms + ma)

C and D returned 0 do (de — ds)/ms

The average deflection per unit change of moment is taken as the mean of the
figures in the last column.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 155 ---
134 Basic ship theory

EXAMPLE 4. A ship of 6000 tonnef displacement is inclined. The ballast weights
are arranged in four equal units of 10 tonnef and each is moved transversely
through a distance of 10m. The pendulum deflections recorded are 31, 63, 1,
—30, —62 and 0cm with a pendulum length of 7m. Calculate the metacentric
height at the time of the experiment.

Solution: Since the moment is applied in equal increments of 100 tonnef m, each
such increment can be represented by unity in the table as below, using the first
method of analysis:

Applied moment nm? Deflection =m xd
Units of 100 tonnef m dem
m

1 1 31 31

2 4 63 126

0 0 1 0
-l 1 —30 30
—2 4 —62 124

0 0 0 0

Sn? = 10 Smd = 311

«. Mean deflection per unit moment = 31.1 cm, i.e. the pendulum is deflected
through 31.1cm for each 100 tonnef m of applied moment

Pendulum deflection
Angle of heel = Pendulum length

31.1 .
= 700 = 0.0444 radians.

For small angles

Applied moment = AGM@
*. 100 = 6000 GM 0.0444
“. GM = 0.375m

Applying the second method of analysis would have given:

Change of moment Units of | Change in pendulum — Pendulum deflection

100 tonnef m deflection (cm) per unit change of moment
1 31 31
1 32 32

—2 —62 31

-l —31 31

-l —32 32
2 62 31

18
Hence mean pendulum deflection = eS

= 31.3cm

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 156 ---
Stability 135

This represents less than one per cent difference compared with the answer
obtained by the first analysis. This is within the general limits of accuracy of the
experiment.

Precautions to be taken

The importance of obtaining an accurate result has already been emphasized
and certain precautions must be taken to ensure that accuracy is obtained.
These are really a matter of common sense and include

(a) The ship must be floating upright and freely without restraint from ropes.

(b) There should be no wind on the beam.

(c) All loose weights should be secured.

(d) All cross-connections between tanks should be closed.

(e) Tanks should be empty or pressed full. If neither of these conditions is
possible, the level of liquid in the tank should be such that the free surface
effect is readily calculable and will remain sensibly constant throughout the
experiment.

(f) The number of people on board should be kept to a minimum and they
should go to specified positions for each reading of the pendulums.

(g) Any mobile equipment used to move the weights across the deck must
return to a known position for each set of readings.

It should be noted that (c), (d), (/) and (g) will, to some extent, be checked by
he accuracy with which the pendulums return to their zero readings following
he return of weights to their original positions half way through the experi-
ment and again at the end. If the pendulum reading fails to take up a steady
value but slowly increases or diminishes, it is likely that liquid is passing
between tanks through an open cross-connection.

PRECISION OF STABILITY STANDARDS AND CALCULATIONS

The stability characteristics of a given form can be derived with considerable
precision and some authorities fall into the trap of quoting parameters such as
initial metacentric height with great arithmetic accuracy. This shows a lack of
appreciation of the true design concept of stability and the uncertainties
surrounding it in the real world.

Even in the very limited case of the stability of a vessel at rest in calm water
great precision is illusory since:

(a) Ships are not built precisely to the lines plan.

(b) Weights and KG of sister ships even in the unloaded state will differ. Apart
from dimensional variations, plate thicknesses are nominal.

(c) The accuracy of KG assessment is limited by the accuracy with which an
inclining experiment can be conducted.

(d) Many calculations ignore the effects of trim.

However, these inaccuracies are relatively trivial compared with the circum-
stances appertaining when a vessel is on voyage in a rough sea.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 157 ---
136 Basic ship theory

By now the student should appreciate that stability is a balance between
forces acting on the hull, trying on the one hand to overturn it and on the other
to return it to the upright position. All the major elements in the equation are
varying, viz.:

(a) Weight of ship and its distribution depend upon initial lading and the way
in which consumables are used up during a voyage. The presence or other-
wise of free surfaces will be significant.

(6) Wind forces will depend upon speed and direction relative to ship. They will
vary as the wind gusts and as the ship moves to present a different aspect to
the wind, e.g. by rolling.

(c) Water forces will depend upon the nett wave pattern compounded by the
ship’s own pattern interacting with that of the surrounding ocean; also
upon the ship’s altitude and submergence as it responds to the forces acting
on it. To take one example: the shipping of water and the ability of clearing
ports to clear that water is important.

A ship’s speed and direction relative to the predominant wave direction can be
important. At relatively high speed in quartering seas a ship encounters waves
of a wide range of lengths at almost exactly the same frequency. If this
frequency happened to coincide with the ship’s natural roll frequency, then
very large roll amplitudes could build up quickly, possibly resulting in capsize.

Thus the concepts of static equilibrium and stability have many limitations in
dealing with what is in reality a dynamic situation. To be realistic, a designer
must recognise the varying environment and the variations in ship condition.
Traditionally this has been dealt with by setting standards based loosely on
realistic conditions and experience of previously successful design. Margins
provide safety under all but extreme conditions which it would be uneconomi-
cal to design for. Whilst this approach can allow different standards for say
ocean going or coastal shipping it has a number of drawbacks, viz.:

(a) A succession of successful ships may mean they have been overdesigned.
(b) The true risk factor is not quantified. Is it a 1 in 10° or 1 in 10° probability
of a ship being lost?

In recent years more attention has been given to the problems of stability and
capsizing as dynamic phenomena. Advances have been made in the under-
standing of the dynamic problem spurred on, unfortunately, by a number of
marine disasters such as the loss of the trawler Gaul. This was a modern vessel
which met IMO standards for the service in which it was used but which was
nevertheless lost. In this case it was concluded that the Gaul was not lost
because of inadequate intact stability or poor seakeeping qualities. It is sur-
mised that it met severe wave and wind conditions at the same time as it
suffered from some other unknown circumstance such as internal flooding.

The above remarks will have made the student more aware of the true nature
of the problem of stability of ships at sea, and the limitations of the current
static approach. However, there is, as yet, no agreed method of dealing with the
true dynamic situation. The designer still uses the static stability criteria but

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 158 ---
Stability 137

with an eye on the other issues. Quasi-static calculations of stability curves can
be made with a ship balanced on a wave. Righting arms are reduced below the
still water values when a wave crest is near amidships and increased when a
trough is amidships. In the case of Gau/ the variation in maximum GZ was
about +30 per cent. The changing roll stiffness due to the GZ variations as the
ship passes through successive crests and troughs can result in a condition of
parametric resonance leading to eventual capsize. The effect of the Smith
correction on righting arm was found to be insignificant for angles up to 20
degrees but gave changes of 10 per cent at 50 degrees. Model experiments can
be valuable for studies of stability in waves.

In another approach the hull shape was so configured as to retain a constant
GZ curve in the changing circumstances between the ‘as designed’ and ‘as built’
conditions and in motion in a seaway. It discussed how to create a hull form in
way of the design draught such that the metacentric height remains constant
with changing displacement and trim and how to extend this to quasi-static sea
conditions. Although the approach concentrated on initial stability it was
shown that forms developed in accord with the principles exhibited sensibly
constant GZ curves in waves, and for damaged stability and change of draught
up to quite large heel angles. The shaping required did not conflict greatly with
other design considerations.

Heeling trials
These trials are mentioned only because they are commonly confused with the
inclining experiment. In fact, the two are quite unrelated. Heeling trials are
carried out to prove that the ship, and the equipment within it, continue to
function when the vessel is held at a steady angle of heel. For instance, pumps
may fail to maintain suction, bearings of electric motors may become over-
loaded, boats may not be able to be lowered by the davits clear of the ship, etc.
For warships, the trials are usually carried out for angles of heel of 5, 10 and
15 degrees although not all equipment is required to operate up to the 15 degree
angle.

Tilt test

This is another test carried out in warships which is quite unrelated to
the inclining experiment but is sometimes confused with it. The tilt test is
carried out to check the alignment of items of armament—gun turrets, missile
launchers, directors—with respect to each other and to a reference datum in the
ship.

Problems

1. A small weight is added to a wall-sided ship on the centre line and at such a
position as to leave trim unchanged. Show that the metacentric height is
reduced if the weight is added at a height above keel greater than T — GM,
where T is the draught.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 159 ---
138 Basic ship theory

2. Prove that for a wall-sided ship, the vertical separation of B and G at angle
of heel ¢ is given by

cos | BG +} BM tan’ 4]

where BG and BM relate to the upright condition. Show that when the ship
has a free surface in a wall-sided tank the corresponding expression is

BG, = cos ¢[ BGs + 4(BM — GgGr) tan’ |

where subscripts S and F relate to the solid and fluid centres of gravity.
3. Show that the dynamical stability of a wall-sided vessel up to angle ¢ is given
by the expression

A[BG(cos ¢ — 1) + 3BM tan ¢sin ¢]

4. Prove the wall-sided formula.

A rectangular homogeneous block 30m long x 7m wide x 3m deep is
half as dense as the water in which it is floating. Calculate the metacentric
height and the GZ at 15 degrees and 30 degrees of heel.

5. The statical stability curve for a cargo ship of 10,000 tonnef displacement is
defined by

ro)

degrees) 0 15 30 45 60 75 90

gi
Ni

(m) 0 0.275 0.515 0.495 0.330 0.120 = —0.100

Determine the ordinate of the dynamical stability curve at 60 degrees and
the change in this figure and loss in range of stability if the c.g. of the ship is
raised by 0.25m.

6. A hollow triangular prism whose ratio of base to height is 1:2 floats vertex
downwards. Mercury of density 13.6 is poured in to a depth of 1m and
water is then poured on top till the draught of the prism is 4m. Calculate
GM solid and fluid assuming the prism weightless.

7. A ship has the following principal dimensions: length 120m, beam 14m,
draught 4m, displacement 30 MN. The centres of buoyancy and gravity are
2.5m and 6m above keel and the metacentre is 7m above keel.

Calculate the new metacentric height and beam if draught is reduced
to 3.6m, keeping length, displacement, KG and coefficients of fineness
unaltered.

8. The model of a ship, 1.52m long, is found to be unstable. Its waterplane
has an area of 3548 cm? and a transverse MI of 228,930cm‘. The draught is
11.68cm and the volume of displacement is 36052 cm? in fresh water.

If G is originally 15.24cm above the keel, how far above the keel must a
mass of 9.1 kg be put to just restore stability? KB = 6.35cm.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 160 ---
Stability 139

9. A hollow prism has a cross section in the form of an isosceles triangle. It
floats apex down in fresh water with mercury, of specific gravity 13.5,
dropped into it to make it float upright.

If the prism may be assumed weightless by comparison and has an
included angle of 90 degrees, express the fluid metacentric height in terms
of the draught T.

10. A ship is floating in fresh water at a draught of 4.27m when a weight of
427 tonnef is placed 12.8 m above the keel and 4.27 m to port. Estimate the
angle of heel.

In sea water, the hydrostatic curves show that at a draught of 4.27m,
TPC = 28.8; displacement = 36,576 tonnef; KM = 7.92m; KB = 2.44m.
Before the weight is added KG = 5.79 m.

11. The raft shown has to support a weight which would produce a combined
height of the centre of gravity above the keel of 3.5m. The draught is then
uniformly Im.

What is the minimum value of d—the distance apart of the centre lines of
the baulks—if the GM must not be less than 2m?

sme be

Fig. 4.35

12. A homogeneous solid is formed of a right circular cylinder and a right
circular cone of the same altitude / on opposite sides of a circular base
radius r. It floats with the axis vertical, the whole of the cone and half of

he cylinder being immersed. Prove that the metacentric height is

37° /10h — 21h/80, so that for equilibrium r must be greater than 0.935h.

13. A ship of 50MN (5100 tonnef) displacement has a metacentric height of

m. Suppose 1.0 MN of fuel to be shifted so that its centre of gravity moves

6m transversely and 2m vertically up, what would be the angle of heel of

he vessel, if it were upright before the movement? No free surface effects
are produced.

14. A prismatic log of wood, of specific gravity 0.75, whose uniform transverse

section is that of an isosceles triangle, floats in fresh water with the base of

he section horizontal and vertex upwards. Find the least vertical angle of
he section for these conditions to hold.

15. A pontoon raft 10m long is formed by two cylindrical pontoons 0.75m

diameter spaced 2m apart between centres and is planked over with wood

orming a platform 10m x 3m.

When laden, the raft floats with the cylindrical pontoons half immersed
in river water and its centre of gravity when laden is 1 m above the water-
line. Calculate the transverse and longitudinal metacentric heights.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 161 ---
140 Basic ship theory

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

Describe the procedure required to carry out an inclining experiment.
The displacement of a vessel as inclined in sea water is 75 MN, 0.3 MN of
ballast with a spread of 15m causes a deviation of 0.2m on a 4m pendu-
lum. The net weight to go on includes 7 MN of fuel (s.g. = 0.85) witha KG
of 6m. The transverse M.I. of the fuel surface is 1000 m4 units. If the value
of KM is 9m and is kept at this value for the increased draught, find the
final GM.

Determine the transverse metacentric height from the following data
obtained from an inclining experiment:

Length of pendulum =6.1m

Mean deflection =21cm

Shift of weight = 20tonnef through 17.34m

Draughts at perpendiculars fwd. = 5.42m

aft. =5.82m
Density of water = 0.98 m3/tonnef
Length BP = 172m

The hydrostatic particulars for normal trim of 0.61 m by the stern and
water 0.975 m3/tonnef are:

Draught (mean BP) Displacement TPC CF. aft of. (6
(m) (tonnef) (m)

5.486 10,692 19.61 9.144

5.639 10,996 19.69 9.480

During an inclining experiment on a 60MN guided missile destroyer
weights in units of 0.05MN are moved 10m transversely. Deflections at
the bottom of a pendulum 4m long are defined by the following table:

Weight movement Pendulum reading (m)
0 0

(a) 0.05 MN to port 0.023

(b) 0.05 MN to port 0.049

(a) & (b) returned 0.003

(c) 0.05 MN to starboard —0.021

(d) 0.05MN to starboard —0.045

(c) & (d) returned —0.001

Calculate the metacentric height as inclined.
A crane ina cargo liner, of 50 MN displacement and GM 1 m, lifts a weight
of 0.2 MN from a cargo hold through a vertical height of 10 m. If the height
of the crane’s jib is 20m above the hold and the radius of the jib is 10m,
calculate the reduction in GM caused by lifting the weight.

What is the approximate angle of heel caused by turning the crane
through 30 degrees assuming it is initially aligned fore and aft?
A fire in the hangar of an aircraft carrier, floating in water of
0.975 m3/tonnef is fought by dockside fire tenders using fresh water. When
the fire is under control the hangar, which is 109.7m long and 24.38m

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 162 ---
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

Stability 141

broad, is found to be flooded to a depth of 0.91 m. If the hangar deck is
7.01 m above the original c.g. of the ship, what is the resultant GM? The
following particulars apply to the ship before the fire:

Displacement = 43,688tonnef KB =5.79m
Mean draught = 11.94m BM = 7.01m
TPC = 47.2 GM = 3.51m

The following particulars apply to a new cruiser design:

Deep displacement 12,500 tonnef
Length on WL 200m

KG 8m

GMr 1.5m

Area of waterplane 3000 m?
Draught 6m

Depth of hull amidships 14m

Beam 21m

A proposal is made to increase the armament by the addition of a weight
of 200 tonnef, the c.g. 2m above the upper deck. Find the amount by which
the beam must be increased to avoid loss of transverse stability assuming
other dimensions unchanged. Assume water of 0.975 m3/tonne.

A pontoon has a constant cross-section in the form of a trapezium, width
6m at the keel, 10m at the deck and depth 5m. At what draught will the
centre of curvature of the curve of flotation be at the deck level?

Show that a wall-sided vessel with negative GM lolls to an angle
given by

tang = +| ——
BM

A body of square cross-section of side 6m has a metacentric height of
—0.5m when floating at a uniform draught of 3m. Calculate the angle of
loll.

Derive an expression for the radius of curvature of the metacentric locus.

Prove that in a wall-sided vessel, the radius of curvature of the metacentric
locus is given by 3 BM sec? ¢ tan @ where BM relates to the upright condi-
tion.

The half-ordinates in metres of a waterplane for a ship of 5MN, 56m long
are 0.05, 0.39, 0.75, 1.16, 1.63, 2.12, 2.66, 3.07, 3.38, 3.55, 3.60, 3.57, 3.46,
3.29. 3.08, 2.85, 2.57, 2.26, 1.89, 1.48, and 1.03. If KB is 1.04m and KG is
2.2m calculate the value of GM assuming the ship is in water of
0.975 m3/Mg.

A computer output gives the following data for plotting cross curves of
stability (KS = 5m).


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 163 ---
142 Basic ship theory

27.

28.

29.

@ Disp. SZ Disp. SZ Disp. SZ

(deg) (tonnef) (m) (tonnef) (m) (tonnef) (m)
10 1300 1.04 2350 0.69 3580 0.53
4890 0.43 6200 0.37 7660 0.36
20 1410 1.63 2430 1.26 3660 1.02
4950 0.87 6330 0.78 7830 0.77
30 1580 1.85 2600 1.59 3820 1.37
5130 1.31 6550 1.26 8100 1.23
40 1810 1.95 2870 1.82 4120 1.79
5500 1.72 6870 1.66 8350 1.53
50 2100 2.08 3270 2.10 4570 2.08
5850 1.96 7150 1.83 8450 1.69
60 2530 2.30 3680 2.23 4950 2.10
6200 1.96 7400 1.83 8600 1.70
70 2950 2.23 4030 2.12 5300 1.98
6500 1.82 7620 1.71 8770 1.62
80 3250 1.94 4370 1.88 5530 1.75
6680 1.61 7830 1.53 8970 1.47
90 3670 1.56 4630 1.50 5740 1.44
6900 1.36 8050 1.30 9170 1.28

Plot the cross curves of stability and deduce the GZ curves for the
following conditions:

(a) A = 3710tonnef; GM = 0.64m; KG = 7.28m
(b) A = 4275 tonnef; GM = 0.93m; KG = 6.73m
(c) A = 4465 tonnef; GM = 0.96m; KG = 6.63m
(d) A = 4975 tonnef; GM = 1.19m; KG = 6.23m

Plot the GZ curves and find the angles of vanishing stability.
A ship of displacement 50 MN has a KG of 6.85m. The SZ values read
from a set of cross curves of stability are as below:

10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90

@
SZ(m) 0.635 1.300 1.985 2.650 3.065 3.145 3.025 2.725 2.230

Assuming that KS for the curves is 5m, calculate the ordinates of the GZ
curve and calculate the dynamical stability up to 80 degrees.
A passenger liner has a length of 200 m, a beam of 25m, a draught of 10m
and a metacentric height of | m. The metacentric height of a similar vessel
having a length of 205m, beam 24m, draught of 10.5m is also Im.
Assuming that KG is the same for the two vessels, calculate the ratio of
KB to BM in the original vessel. What is the ratio of the displacements of
the two vessels?
A vessel 72 m long floats at 6m draught and has 4.5 m freeboard, with sides
above water vertical. Determine the GZ at 90°, assuming KB = 3.5m and
KG = 5m with the vessel upright. The half-ordinates of the waterplane are
0.8, 3.3, 5.4, 6.5, 6.8, 6.3, 5.1, 2.8 and 0.6 m. The displacement is 3588 tonnef
and the middle-line plane is rectangular in shape. Assume water is salt.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 164 ---
Stability 143

30. For a given height of the centre of gravity and a required standard of

stability (i.e. GM), what is

draught and volume of disp

State your assumptions c
A ship is designed to the

he relationship between a ship’s length, beam,
acement?

early.

ollowing particulars:

Displacement 10,160 tonnef; draught 7.32 m; beam 17.07m; GM 1.07m;

G above WL 1.22m; TPC
Alterations involve 101.6

What increase in beam wi

9.2.
tonnef extra displacement and 0.3 m rise of c.g.
1 be necessary to maintain GM, assuming that

the depth of the ship remains unaltered and the small alterations in dimen-

sions will not further alter
Assume the ship to be wa’

he position of the c.g. or weight?
l-sided and that length, waterplane coefficients

and block coefficients are unchanged.

. A ship of 53,850 tonnef displacement carries 5390 tonnef of oil fuel in a

rectangular tank 30m long, 20m wide and 20m deep. If the oil is assumed
solid the ship has a GM of 4.90m and the following values of GZ:
15 30 45 60 75

angle (deg) 90

GZ (m) 1.35 2.72 3.17 2.18 0.60 —-1.13
Taking the density of the oil as 1.11 m?/tonnef, find the values of GZ at
30, 45 and 75 degrees allowing for the mobility of the fuel, and state the

initial GM (fluid) and the angle of vanishing stability.

. Prove Atwood’s formula for calculating GZ for a ship at an angle of heel ¢.

A simple barge has a constant cross-section throughout its length, a
beam B at the waterplane and straight sides which slope outwards at an
angle a to the vertical (beam increasing with draught).

If the barge is heeled to an angle ¢, prove that the heeled waterplane will
cut the upright waterplane at a horizontal distance x from the centre line
where:

B
x = ———___
2tan¢dtana

f —{1l- (tan tan a)?})

If B = 20m, a = 10° and ¢ = 30°, calculate the value of x, and then, by
calculation or drawing, obtain the GZ at 30° of heel if ByG = 4.6m and the
underwater section area = 140 m?.

. State the purposes of an inclining experiment. Explain the preparations at

the ship before the experiment is performed.

Calculate the change in GM due to the addition of 152 tonnef, 11m
above the keel of a frigate whose particulars before the addition are given
below:

Displacement = 2743 tonnef KG =6.49m
TPC = 7.2 KB = 2.50m
Draught =427m BM = 5.64m

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 165 ---
144 Basic ship theory

34. Derive an expression for the radius of curvature of the curve of flotation in
terms of the waterplane characteristics and the volume of displacement
(Leclert’s theorem).

A homogeneous prism with cross-section as an isosceles triangle, base
width B and height H, floats with its apex downwards in a condition of
neutral equilibrium. Show that the radius of curvature of the curve of
flotation in this condition is

BH /(4H? + B°)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 166 ---
5 Hazards and protection

The naval architect needs to be more precise than the old and loved hymn, and
must ask why those on the sea are in peril and what can be done to help them.
Hazard to those sailing in well designed ships arises through mishandling,
misfortune or an enemy and these can cause flooding, fire, explosion, structural
damage or a combination of these. It is the job of the naval architect to ensure
that the effects do not result in immediate catastrophe and that they can be
counteracted by equipment provided in the ship, at least up to a substantial
level of damage. It is necessary to ensure that when the damage is such that the
ship will be lost, workable equipment and time are adequate to save life. To this
end, the naval architect must anticipate the sort of mishandling and misfortune
possible and the probable intent of any enemy, so that the ship can be designed
to mitigate the effects and render counter action readily available.

This chapter is concerned with this anticipation. It seeks to define the hazards
in sufficiently precise terms and to describe the forms of protection and life
saving possible. Some of these forms are demanded by international and
national regulations; such regulations do not, however, remove the need to
understand the problems.

Despite all that anticipation and regulation can achieve, losses at sea con-
tinue. In 1990, 230 ships were lost, representing about 0.3 per cent of the 76,000
ships at risk worldwide and 0.2 per cent of world tonnage. Typically about a
third are lost by fire or explosion. Whilst not a large percentage, they remain an
anxiety to naval architects as well as to masters, owners and safety authorities.

Flooding and collision
WATERTIGHT SUBDIVISION

Excluding loading in excess of the reserve of buoyancy, a ship can be sunk only
by letting water in. Water may be let in by collision, grounding, by enemy
action or by operation of a system open to the sea. A compartment which has
been opened to the sea is said to have been bilged. However the water is let in,
there is a need to isolate the flooded volume for the following reasons:

(a) to minimize the loss of transverse stability,

(b) to minimize damage to cargo,

(c) to prevent plunge, i.e. loss of longitudinal stability,
(d) to minimize the loss of reserve of buoyancy.

Ideally, a ship should sustain more and more flooding without loss of
stability until it sinks bodily by loss of its reserve of buoyancy. This is foundering.
The dangerous effect of asymmetric moment on the GZ curve was discussed in

145

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 167 ---
146 Basic ship theory

the last chapter; the ideal way to avoid such a possibility, is to subdivide the
entire ship transversely and this is a major aim of the designer. It is not often
wholly possible, but it is nowadays a major feature of most ships even at the
expense of increasing the volume of water admitted. Free surface can also cause
appreciable loss of transverse stability as discussed in Chapter 4. The effects of
free surface can be minimized by longitudinal bulkheads which are undesirable
and, better, by sills; because the loss of stability is proportional to the cube of
the width of free surface, the effect of this type of subdivision is considerable
(see Fig. 5.1). The sill reduces the effect of shallow flooding but cannot cure the
effect of excessive transverse flooding.

sl

Fig. 5.1 Effect of a sill

Extensive watertight subdivision is an inconvenience to everyone. The ship is
larger, more expensive to build, access around the ship is inconvenient and
cargo becomes more difficult to stow and more expensive to handle. A com-
promise between degree of safety and economics must be found. Generally, this
results in watertight volumes larger in merchant ships than in warships, and a
greater tendency in the former to plunge when damaged. Regulations to mini-
mize this possibility in the behaviour of merchant ships are dealt with later in
the chapter under ‘Damage Safety Margins’.

Certain watertight subdivision is incorporated into a ship with the direct
intention of isolating common and likely forms of damage. Collision, for
example, is most likely to let water in at the bow. For this reason most
passenger ships are required to have a collision bulkhead at 5 per cent of the
length from the bow. A second bulkhead is required in ships longer than 100m.
Also required are an afterpeak bulkhead and bulkheads dividing main and
auxiliary machinery spaces from other spaces. They must be watertight up to
the bulkhead deck and able to withstand the water pressures they might be
subject to after damage. The collision bulkhead should not be pierced by more
than one pipe below the margin line. A watertight double bottom is required
and in ships over 76 m in length this must extend from the collision to afterpeak
bulkhead. It provides useful tank capacity as well as protection against
grounding and also some protection against non-contact underbottom
explosions, although to be most effective it should be only partially filled with
liquid (usually oil fuel), which causes large free surface losses. The effects of
contact explosion by torpedo or mine are minimized in large warships by
the provision at the sides of sandwich protection comprising watertight


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 168 ---
Hazards and protection 147

compartments containing air or fluid (see Fig. 5.2). The basic principle is to
absorb the energy of the explosion without allowing water to penetrate to the
ship’s vitals. Similar usable watertight space is efficacious in RoRo ferries
against collision.

Fig. 5.2 Sandwich protection

Special subdivision is required in ships having a nuclear reactor. The reactor,
primary circuit and associated equipment must be in a containment pressure
vessel which should be so supported in the ship that it accepts no strain from
the ship. It must be protected from damage by longitudinal bulkheads between
it and the ship’s side, by an extra deep double bottom and by cofferdam spaces
longitudinally (Fig. 5.3).

Cargo
hold

Reactor
pressure
vessel

Ancillary
spaces

Machinery

Profile

Plan

Fig. 5.3 Reactor protection

FLOTATION CALCULATIONS

In order to assess a ship’s ability to withstand damage, it is first necessary in the
design stages to define the degrees of flooding to be examined. A range of
examples will be chosen normally based, for a warship, on an expert assessment

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 169 ---
148 Basic ship theory

of likely weapon damage or, for a merchant ship, on statutory figures given in
the United Kingdom in the Merchant Shipping (Construction) Rules. For each
of these examples, it is necessary to discover

(a) the damaged waterline, heel and trim,
(5) the damaged stability for which minimum standards are laid down in the
same Rules.

Consider, first, a central compartment of a rectangular vessel open to the sea
(Fig. 5.4).

PSSSSSSSSN SOOO K\ASSASSNAMWM
c

W

E F
Added weight

uy

yA

Lost buoyancy

Fig. 5.4 A central compartment open to the sea

Asa result of this flooding, the ship sinks from WL to W,L;. The amount of
weight added to the ship by the admission of water is represented by ABFE and
the additional buoyancy required exactly to support it is represented by
W.LiLW. To calculate the added weight to the depth AE, it is necessary to
guess the new waterline and then verify that the guess is correct; trial and error
will yield an answer. There is a better way to approach the problem. Instead of
thinking of an increase in ship weight, the flooded portion CDFE must be
thought of as a loss of buoyancy which must be made up by the buoyancies of
W.ACW and BL|LD. The lost buoyancy CDFE can be calculated exactly
because it is up to the original waterline only, and the additional buoyancy
up to W,L; can be calculated from the tonf parallel immersion of the water-
plane excluding the portion AB. Weight and buoyancy of the portion ABDC
cancel each other out. The ship’s weight is unchanged. These two approaches
are known generally as the ‘added weight method’ and the ‘lost buoyancy
method’ respectively.

Compartments of ships open to the sea do not fill totally with water because
some space is already occupied by structure, machinery or cargo. The ratio of

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 170 ---
Hazards and protection 149

the volume which can be occupied by water to the total gross volume is called
the permeability. Typical values are

Space Permeability (per cent)

{35 (warship)

Watertight compartment 95 (merchant ship)

Accommodation spaces 95
Machinery compartments 85
Dry cargo spaces 70
Coal bunkers, stores, cargo holds 60

Permeabilities should be calculated or assessed with some accuracy. Gross
floodable volume should therefore be multiplied by the permeability to give
the lost buoyancy or added weight. Formulae for the calculation of perme-
ability for merchant ships are given in the Merchant Shipping (Construction)
Rules.

Often, a watertight deck will limit flooding of a compartment below the level
of the new waterline. But for a possible free surface effect due to entrapped air,
the compartment may be considered pressed full and its volume calculated. In
this case, the new waterline, heel and trim are best calculated by regarding the
flooding as a known added weight whose effects are computed by the methods
described in Chapters 3 and 4.

Where there is no such limitation and the space is free flooding, heel, trim
and parallel sinkage are calculated by regarding the flooding as lost buoyancy
in a manner similar to that already described for a central compartment. Now,
because the ineffective area of waterplane is not conveniently central, the centre
of flotation will move and the ship will not heel about the middle line. The
procedure is therefore as follows:

(i) calculate permeable volume of compartment up to original waterline;

(ii) calculate TPI, longitudinal and lateral positions of CF for the waterplane
with the damaged area removed;

(iii) calculate revised second moments of areas of the waterplane about the CF
in the two directions and hence new BMs;

(iv) calculate parallel sinkage and rise of CB due to the vertical transfer of
buoyancy from the flooded compartment to the layer;

(v) calculate new GMs

(vi) calculate angles of rotation due to the eccentricity of the loss of buoyancy
from the new CFs.

This is best illustrated by an example.

EXAMPLE 1. A compartment having a plan area at the waterline of 100 m? and
centroid 70 m before midships, 13 m to starboard is bilged. Up to the waterline
obtaining before bilging, the compartment volume was 1000 m? with centres of
volume 68.5m before midships, 12m to starboard and 5m above keel. The
permeability was 0.70.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 171 ---
150 Basic ship theory

[| +f
TSeEBUw’ SS

Fig. 5.5

Before the incident the ship was floating on an even draught of 10m at which
the following particulars obtained

Displacement mass, 30,000 tonnes KM long, 170m

KG, 9.40m WP area, 4540 m?

KM transverse, 11.40m CF, 1m before midships
KB, 5.25m LBP, 220m

Calculate the heel and trim when the compartment is bilged.

Solution: Refer to Fig. 5.5. Use the lost buoyancy method.

(i) Permeable volume = 0.70 x 1000 = 700 m?
(ii) Damaged WP area = 4440 m?

100 x (70 — 1)
Movement of CF aft = —7140 1.55m
100 x 13
Movement of CF to port = * © = 0.29m

~ 4440 —
(iii) Original transverse J
I = (11.40 — 5.25) x 0.975 x 30,000 = 179.889 m4
Damaged transverse J
I = 179.89 x 10° — 100 x 13? — 4440 x (0.29)? = 162,620 m4

(ignoring J of the damage about its own axis)

— 162,620

Damaged transverse BM = 0.975 x 30,000 = 5.56m

Original long. I
I = (170.0 — 5.25) x 0.975 x 30,000 = 4.819 x 10° m4

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 172 ---
Hazards and protection 151

Damaged long.
I = 4.819 x 10° — 100 (69)” — 4440 (1.55)? = 4.332 x 10° m4
Damaged long. BM

— 4.332 x 108
BM = 0975 x 30,000 48!™

(iv) Parallel sinkage = 2% = 0.16m

700(10 + 0.08 — 5)
0.975 x 30,000

(v) Damaged transverse GM = 5.25 + 0.12 + 5.56 — 9.40 = 1.53m

Rise of B= =0.12m

Damaged long. GM = 5.25 + 0.12 + 148.1 — 9.40 = 144.1m

. 700 x 12.29 180 5
(vi) Angle of heel 0.975 x 30,000 x 1.53 x 7 11.0

700 x (68.5 — 1 + 1.55)

0.975 x 30,000 x 144.1 > 01147 rads

Angle of trim

Change of trim = 0.01147 x 220 = 2.52 m between perps.
Note that displacement and KG are unchanged.

The principal axes of the waterplane, as well as moving parallel to their
original positions, also rotate. The effects of this rotation are not great until a
substantial portion of the waterplane has been destroyed.

This approach to the flotation calculations is satisfactory for trim which does
not intersect keel or deck and for heel up to about 10 degrees. Thereafter, it is
necessary to adopt a trial and error approach and to calculate the vertical,
athwartships and longitudinal shifts of the centre of buoyancy for several trial
angles of waterplanes. That angle of waterplane which results in the new centre
of buoyancy being perpendicularly under the centre of gravity is the correct
one. This is illustrated for the transverse plane in Fig. 5.6, in which the transfer


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 173 ---
152 Basic ship theory

of buoyancy from b to the two wedges (one negative) results in a move of the
centre of buoyancy of the whole from B to B;. BiG must be perpendicular to
WL}. To ensure that the displacement is unaltered, several waterlines parallel
to WL; will be necessary at each angle as described presently under ‘Damaged

Stability Calculations’, Fig. 5.8.

DAMAGED STABILITY CALCULATIONS

Consider, first, the effect of a flooded compartment on initial stability. Let us
show that, whether the flooding be considered an added weight or a lost buoy-
ancy, the result will be the same.

Consider a ship of displacement A admitting a weight w having a free surface
i as shown in Fig. 5.7. Regarding as an added weight,

— wBb

Ri f B= BB; =
Se 0 "A+
— wGg

Fall of G= GG; =
ae “Dew

New GM = B,M, — B;G; = B;M; — BG + BB; + GG;

Added weight Lost buoyancy
Fig. 5.7
ie.
(i-i) sa Wooo ae
G\M BG 4 Bb+G
re PR w Aau! 8)

Righting moment = (A + w) GiMi¢ = {p(l — i) — ABG — wBG

+ w(Bb + BG + Bg)}¢

= {p(l — i) — ABG + whg}¢d

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 174 ---
Hazards and protection 153

Regarding as a loss of buoyancy,

R f B = BB» = —=
ise o n=]

New GM = B2M> — BxG = BM, — BG + BB>

(1 -i) =. wbg
rN BG + A

GM> = p

Righting moment = AGM ¢ = {p(I; — i) - ABG + wbg}¢ as before.

Thus, so far as righting moment is concerned (and this is what the ship
actually experiences), it does not matter whether the flooding is regarded as
added weight or lost buoyancy although GM and GZ values will not be the
same. The lost buoyancy method is also called the constant displacement
method.

It is probable that the approximate method of correcting the GZ curve for
contained liquid given in Chapter 4 will be insufficiently accurate for large
volumes open to the sea. In this case, cross curves for the volume of flooding
are constructed in the following manner:

For each angle of heel, a series of parallel waterlines P, Q, R, S, is drawn. For
each of these waterlines, the weight of flooding and its lever Sz from the pole
of the ship’s cross curves are calculated by integrator, computer or direct
mensuration, i.e. by one of the methods used for the ship itself and described
in Chapter 4. The weight of flooding up to each waterline is added to the deep
displacement to give a damaged displacement which is plotted on a base of WL
together with wSz. Intact displacement to the same base will be available from
the calculations which led to the cross curves for the ship (if not, they must be
calculated). Where these two lines cross is the point of vertical equilibrium for
that angle and wSz can be read off. Now the restoring lever SZ for the intact
ship at displacement A + w can be read directly from the cross curves. Then the
damaged righting moment is given by

(A + w)SZ — ASG sin ¢ — wSz

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 175 ---
154 Basic ship theory

&

Righting lever

Fig. 5.9 Damaged GZ curve

A righting lever corresponding to the original displacement A is given by
dividing this expression by A. This procedure is repeated for all angles. The
damaged GZ curve will, in general, appear as in Fig. 5.9. The point at which the
curve crosses the ¢-axis, at angle ¢1, represents the position of rotational equili-
brium; this will be zero when the flooding is symmetrical about the middle line.

With symmetrical flooding, the upright equilibrium position may not be one
of stable equilibrium. In this case, the GZ curve will be as in Fig. 5.10 where ¢2
is the angle of loll. The significance of the angle of loll is discussed in Chapter 4.
If the GZ curve does not rise above the ¢-axis the ship will capsize; if little area
is left above, capsizing will occur dynamically.

Definition of damaged stability is not easy. The Merchant Shipping Regula-
tions require that the margin line shall not be submerged and a residual
metacentric height of at least 0.05 m as calculated by the constant displacement
method in the standard damaged condition be maintained. Adequacy of range,
maximum GZ and angle of maximum stability are important, particularly for
warships which do not conform to the margin line standards discussed pre-
sently. Trim in a warship can cause rapid loss of waterplane inertia and
deterioration of damaged stability and this is one reason why the low quarter

oF 0 do $
-

Fig. 5.10

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 176 ---
Hazards and protection 155

deck destroyers common in the second world war have been replaced by
modern flush deck, high freeboard frigates.

The fact that ships may take up large angles of heel following damage is
recognized in the regulations governing ship construction, e.g. watertight doors
must be able to be opened up to angles of heel of 15 degrees.

DAMAGE SAFETY MARGINS

Minimum standards of behaviour of merchant ships under damaged conditions
are agreed by international convention and enforced by national authority. For
the United Kingdom this authority is the DETR who may delegate certain
authority to specific agencies. The regulations which are the immediate concern
of this chapter are those relating to damaged stability which has already been
discussed, to floodable length and to freeboard. Floodable length calculations
are required to ensure that there is sufficient effective longitudinal waterplane
remaining in a damaged condition to prevent plunge, i.e. loss of longitudinal
stability. Minimum permitted freeboard is allotted to ensure a sufficient reserve
of buoyancy to accommodate damage. It is necessary, as always, to begin with
clear definitions; while these embrace a majority of ships, interpretations for
unusual vessels may have to be obtained from the full Rules, from the national
authority or, even by litigation.

The bulkhead deck is the uppermost weathertight deck to which transverse
watertight bulkheads are carried.

The margin line is a line at least 76 mm below the upper surface of bulkhead
deck at side.

The floodable length at any point in the length of a ship is the length, with
that point as centre, which can be flooded without immersing any part of the
margin line when the ship has no list.

Formulae are provided in the Rules for the calculation of a factor of subdiv-
ision which must be applied to the floodable length calculations. This factor
depends on the length of the ship and a criterion numeral which is intended to
represent the criterion of service of the ship and is calculated from the volumes
of the whole ship, the machinery spaces and the accommodation spaces and the
number of passengers. Broadly, the factor of subdivision ensures that one, two
or three compartments must be flooded before the margin line is immersed and
ships which achieve these standards are called one-, two- or three-compartment
ships. Compartment standard is an inverse of the factor of subdivision. As
indicated in Fig. 5.11, very small ships would be expected to have a one-
compartment and large passenger ships a three-compartment standard.

The product of the floodable length and the factor of subdivision gives the
permissible length. With certain provisos concerning adjacent compartments, a
compartment may not be longer than its permissible length. Flooding calcula-
tions either direct or aided by standard comparative parametric diagrams
available in the United Kingdom from DETR can produce curves similar to
those shown in Fig. 5.12 for floodable and permissible lengths and in general, a
triangle erected from the corners of a compartment with height equal to base
must have an apex below the permissible length curve. The base angle of this


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 177 ---
156 Basic ship theory

Factor of subdivision

Length of ship

Fig. 5.11 Factor of subdivision

triangle is tan~! 2 if vertical and horizontal scales are the same. Lines at this
angle, called the forward and after terminals, terminate the curves at the two
ends of the ship. The steps in the curve are due to different permeabilities of
compartments; in the initial determination of bulkhead spacing for the ship on
this basis, it is necessary to complete sets of permissible length curves for a
range of permeabilities.

Summarizing, the steps to be taken to carry out the floodable length calcula-
tions are as follows:

(a) Define bulkhead deck and margin line;
(6) calculate factor of subdivision;

(c) calculate permeabilities;

(d) assess floodable lengths;

(e) plot permissible lengths.

The second important insurance against damage in merchant ships is the
allocation of a statutory freeboard. The rules governing the allocation of free-
board are laid down by an international Load Line Convention, of which one
was held in 1966, and ratified nationally by each of the countries taking part.
Amendments are introduced by IMO as necessary. Because the amount of

BKD BKD BKD BKD
Length

Fig. 5.12 Floodable and permissible length curves

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 178 ---
Hazards and protection 157

cargo which can be carried is directly related to the minimum permissible
freeboard, the authorities are anxious to be fair and exact and this tends to
produce somewhat complicated rules. The intention, however, is clear enough.
The intention is to provide a simple visual check that a laden ship has sufficient
reserve of buoyancy and to relate, therefore, the watertight volume above the
laden waterline to a height which can be readily measured. This clearly involves
the geometry of the ship, and the statutory calculation of freeboard involves
water density, ship’s length, breadth, depth, sheer, size of watertight super-
structures and other relevant geometrical features of the ship. The Rules require
minimum standards of closure in watertight boundaries before allowing them
to be counted in the freeboard calculation. Standards for hatch covers, crew
protection, freeing port areas, ventilators and scuttles are enforced by these
Rules.

The freeboard thus calculated results in a /oad line which is painted boldly on
the ship’s side in the form shown in Fig. 5.13. Because the density of water
affects the reserve of buoyancy and weather expectation varies with season and
location, different markings are required for Winter North Atlantic (WNA),
Winter (W), Summer (S), Tropical (T), Fresh (F) and Tropical Fresh (TF).

eine |

z
€|2
alg Initials of
el¢ ‘assigning
E E ‘authority TF .
= \
1 -
T bcm
4OxTPCm

50mm (2in)
WNA

Fig. 5.13 Load line markings (min. freeboard differences shown)

DAMAGED STABILITY STANDARDS FOR PASSENGER SHIPS

Following the loss of the ferry Herald of Free Enterprise in 1987, IMO agreed
revised standards to be incorporated into SOLAS which are now amendments
to the Passenger Ship Construction Rules 1984. They require, inter alia, that
after damage;

(a) the range of the residual GZ curve should be 15 degrees beyond the
equilibrium point and that the area of the GZ curve beyond this point be
0.015 m rad up to the smaller of the downflooding angle or 22 degrees from
the upright for one compartment flooding or 27 degrees for two compart-
ment flooding.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 179 ---
158 Basic ship theory

(b) the residual GZ shall be obtained from the worst circumstance of all
passengers (at 75kg each, four per square metre) at the ship’s side or all
survival craft loaded and swung out or wind force at a pressure of
120 N/m? all calculated by:

heeling moment

residual GZ = —
displacement

+ 0.04m but not less than 0.10m
Intermediate stages of flooding must also be considered. The Master must
determine and record the state of his ship before sailing and this is readily done
with the help of a computer.

LOSS OF STABILITY ON GROUNDING

The upward force at the keel due to docking or grounding, whose magnitude
was found in Chapter 3, causes a loss of stability. Let the force at the keel be w.
Consider a slightly inclined vessel before and after the application of this force
(Fig. 5.14).

Fig 5.14

The righting moment at inclination ¢ before the application of w is, of course,
AGM sin ¢. After application, the righting moment is

(A — w)GM' sin 6 — wKGsin¢ = (GM = 7K’) sing

The movement of M to M’ is due, as described in Chapter 3 to (a), the fall of B
due to the removal of the layer of buoyancy at the waterline, (b), the change in
BM due to the differences in J and volume of displacement V.

BERTHING AND ICE NAVIGATION

A ship has no brakes and is slow to respond to the propulsive machinery;
unexpected currents and gusts of wind can make a ship awkward to handle.
Despite dexterous handling by the Master, there will be occasions when a ship
comes alongside heavily and may be indented by fenders or catamarans or tugs.
Local internal structural stiffening is often fitted in the vicinity of the waterline to
afford some protection, and the waterline strake may be increased in thickness.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 180 ---
Hazards and protection 159

Similar stiffening is fitted in ships intended for navigation in ice and Lloyd’s
Register lays down five degrees of stiffening dependent on the type of ice to be
negotiated, making a note against the ship to this effect in the Register Book.
This is not to be confused with the stiffening required in an ice breaker which is
much more formidable, since to perform its task, the ice breaker is driven to
ride up on the ice, allowing its weight to break the ice.

Safety of life at sea

Representatives of over 150 seafaring nations contribute to the International
Maritime Organization (IMO) which is an organization formed in 1959 under
the auspices of the United Nations, intended to promote co-operation amongst
all countries on the questions relating to ships. This organization promotes
discussion on such topics as tonnage measurement, safety of life and standards
of construction. It convened the Load Line Convention of 1966, the one
previous having been held in 1930 and it has taken over the functions of the
International Conferences on the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) held in 1914
(following the Titanic disaster), in 1929, 1948, 1960, 1974 and 1990. The topics
with which the SOLAS Conferences concerned themselves were standards of
construction, watertight subdivision, damage behaviour, damage control, fire
protection, life-saving appliances, dangerous cargoes, nuclear machinery pro-
tection, safety of navigation and many other aspects of safety. Following the
1960 SOLAS Conference, IMO set up a dozen or so sub committees dealing
actively with stability and subdivision, fire protection, bulk cargoes, oil pollu-
tion, tonnage, signals and other aspects of safety under the auspices of a
Maritime Safety Committee.

FIRE

In the design and construction of a ship, it is necessary to provide means to
contain fire, the most feared, perhaps, of all the hazards which face the mariner.
Large death tolls are to be expected in ship fires due mainly to the effects of
smoke. In the passenger ship Scandinavian Star in 1990, 158 people died, all but
six due to the effects of smoke and toxic fumes. When it is appreciated that
these disasters occur in peacetime, with so many modern aids available, the
seriousness of fire as a hazard can be seen. The causes of fires are manifold.
electrical short circuits, chemical reactions, failure of insulation, ingress of hot
particles. Whatever the cause, however, there are two factors about fire which
give the clue to its containment.

(a) fire cannot be sustained below a certain temperature which depends upon
the particular material;
(b) fire cannot be sustained without oxygen.

Thus, to put a fire out, it must be cooled sufficiently or it must be deprived of
oxygen. A ship must be designed readily to permit both.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 181 ---
160 Basic ship theory

The principal method of cooling a fire is to apply water to it and this is most
efficiently done by fine spray. Automatic sprinkler systems are often fitted,
actuated by bulbs which burst at a temperature of about 80°C, permitting
water to pass. Passenger vessels must embody arrangements whereby any point
in the ship can be reached by two hoses delivering a specified quantity of water.
Dual escape from every point is also needed.

Deprivation of oxygen is effected in a variety of ways. The watertight sub-
division of the ship is conveniently adapted to provide vertical zone fire bound-
aries built to particular standards of fire resistance that can be closed off in the
event of a fire. The fire itself can be smothered by gas, fog or foam provided by
portable or fixed apparatus, especially in machinery spaces.

Regulations for merchant ships registered in the United Kingdom are con-
tained in the Merchant Shipping (Fire Appliances) Rules and allied publica-
tions issued by Government bodies. These specify the constructional materials,
method of closing the fire boundaries, the capacities of pumps and the provision of
fire-fighting appliances. While the quantities depend upon the particular classes
of ship, the principles of fire protection in merchant ships and warships are
similar:

(a) the ship is subdivided so that areas may be closed off by fire boundaries;
this also prevents the spread of smoke, which can asphyxiate and also
hampers firefighters in finding the seat of the fire;

(5) a firemain of sufficient extent and capacity is provided, with sufficient cross
connections to ensure supply under severe damage;

(c) fixed foam, or inert gas smothering units are provided in machinery spaces
and in most cargo holds;

(d) sufficient small portable extinguishers are provided to put out a small fire
before it spreads;

(e) fire control plans are supplied to the Master and a fire fighting headquar-
ters provided.

Some cargoes contain or generate their own oxygen and are not therefore
susceptible to smothering. Cooling by spraying or flooding is the only means
of extinguishing such fires and any extensive flooding thus caused brings with it
the added hazard of loss of stability.

LIFE-SAVING EQUIPMENT

Ships must conform to the safety regulations of the country with whom they are
registered. Standards depend upon the class of ship and the service. Generally
sufficient lifeboats and rafts are to be provided for all persons carried. They
must be launchable with the ship listing up to 15 degrees and trimming up to 10
degrees. There have been significant advances in life saving appliances in recent
years following SOLAS 74. Modern systems now include escape chutes similar
to those in aircraft while rescue boats at rigs can withstand severe oil fires.
Information provided to passengers, particularly in ferries, has been improved
and drills for crews are now regularly enforced in all well run ships.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 182 ---
Hazards and protection 161

ANCHORING

Lives of the crew and the value of ship and cargo are often entrusted totally
to the anchor—an item of safety equipment much taken for granted. Bower
anchors carried by ships need to hold the ship against the pull of wind and tide.
The forces due to wind and tide enable the naval architect to select the size of
cable and an anchor of sufficient holding pull. Classification societies define an
equipment number to represent the windage and tide forces and relate this to
the cable and to approved anchor designs.

A good anchor should bite quickly and hold well in all types of sea bed. It
must be stable (i.e. not rotate out), sufficiently strong and easy to weigh.

Efficiency of the anchor itself is measured by the ratio of holding pull to
anchor weight which may nowadays exceed 10 in most sea beds. However, the
efficiency of the mooring depends also upon the length of cable veered and the
depth of water, the ratio of these being the scope. The scope must be sufficient
to ensure a horizontal pull on the anchor shank. Figure 5.15.

1 design (soft mud)

Holding pull
‘Anchor weight

Poor design (sand)

Holding pull ratio

Poor design (soft mud)

Scope = engin of cable

Deptn of water

Fig. 5.15 Characteristics of anchoring

Ideally, the holding pull of the anchor should be slightly less than its own
proof load and slightly more than the total wind and tide drag on the ship,
while the proof load of the cable should be slightly greater than both.

The above applies to anchors which provide horizontal restraint and are used in
ships and moorings. A different type is the uplift resisting anchor used for perma-
nent moorings. Modern types depend upon being buried deep in the sea bed. This
is often achieved using mechanical aids—water jetting, vibration or explosives.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 183 ---
162 Basic ship theory

DAMAGE CONTROL

The importance of a damage control organization is recognized in both
merchant shipping and warship circles. Because of its greater complexity and
its need to defend itself from nuclear, chemical and bacteriological attack as
well as explosion and flooding, the organization in a warship is more complex.
However, the Master of a merchant ship is required to be familiar with the
damage control characteristics of that ship, to institute and drill an effective
organization and to ensure that damage control plans are kept displayed.

The aim is to organize the ship in order rapidly to ascertain the damage, to
isolate the incident and to take corrective action. The ship is constructed to make
this as easy as possible; watertight subdivision is arranged as already discussed;
watertight doors and hatches must be operable at 15 degrees of heel and are
marked in levels of importance; minimum standards of damaged stability are
met; pumping, flooding and fire-fighting systems are arranged to facilitate
action under conditions of damage; electrical supplies are arranged with a view
to providing sufficient breakdown capacity and duplication. All important
systems are cross connected to ensure continuity of supplies following damage.

In a warship, information and control is concentrated in a central compart-
ment with several subsidiary control posts each controlling one of the sections
of the ship into which it is divided for purposes of damage control. Displayed in
the headquarters is the flooding board which shows the watertight subdivision of
the ship and the approximate heel and trim which would result from the flooding
of any watertight compartment. Also displayed is information on the pumping,
electrical, ventilation and other systems. A comprehensive communication net-
work is available in the headquarters. With this organization, the damage
control officer is able to appreciate the position and order corrective action.

Because a ship is most easily sunk by loss of transverse stability, the most
urgent corrective action, once flooding has been contained by the closure of
boundaries, is to reduce the angle of heel. This is most effectively done by
counterflooding, i.e. flooding a compartment on the side opposite the damage
and the extent necessary is indicated by the flooding board. In merchant ships,
various regulations govern the limiting angle of heel. Merchant Shipping Regu-
lations stipulate that after corrective action, heel should not exceed 7 degrees or
the margin line immersed. Asymmetric flooding should be avoided if possible
and cross-flooding systems capable of bringing heel under control in 15
minutes. Following corrective measures, the damage control officer may order
reinforcement of bulkheads by shoring or the repair of leaks by wedges, boxes
and concrete and the slower time repair of damage and restoration of supplies
as far as is possible.

If A is the area of a hole and dis its distance below the waterline, the velocity
of inflow of water, v, is given approximately by v = 4.5,/dm/s, d being in
metres. The volume of water admitted by the hole is KvA, where K is a
coefficient of contraction at the hole. Assuming a value of 0.625 for K,

11
inflow = qAvd m?/s, with 4 in m?

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 184 ---
Hazards and protection 163

Thus, a 15cm diameter hole, 16m below the waterline would admit
11
7* ; x 0.0225 x 4 x 1.025 x 60 = 12 tonnes of salt water per minute.

UNCOMFORTABLE CARGOES

Grain, oil, explosive, hygroscopic materials, liquid gas and radioactive materials
are some of the cargoes which may provide an intrinsic hazard to a ship and for
which a large network of rules exists. These cannot be examined in a book of this
size beyond a brief mention of their existence.

In the nineteenth century, when loading was not supervised by port sur-
veyors, grain ships were lost because voids were left under the decks. Grain and
similar cargoes may shift when the ship rolls at sea, providing an upsetting
moment which, if greater than the ship’s maximum righting moment, causes it
to capsize; if it is less, the ship heels, which may cause a further shift of the
grain, causing a larger angle of heel, which may immerse openings or capsize
the ship. Protection for deep sea ships is now provided as follows:

(a) In special bulk carriers, either upper wing tanks are fitted thus making the
holds ‘self-trimming’ and reducing the free surface in them when full, or at
least two longitudinal curtain bulkheads are used to break up the free surface.

(5) In general cargo carriers (mostly two deckers), shifting boards are fitted in
the upper parts of the ship, usually on the centre line in conjunction with
large feeder boxes. These feeders supply grain for settlement to those voids
which fill in bad weather while limiting the slack surface produced higher
up. When the ship’s stability is adequate, feeders may be replaced by deep
saucers of bagged cargo plugging the hatches.

(In both types of ship, when it is necessary for compartments to be partly
filled, the shift of grain can be restricted by overstowing with bagged grain,
or by strapping down with dunnage platforms and wires, or by carrying the
shifting boards down through the grain.)

(c) In both classes of ship, it is now customary to carry grain stability informa-
tion so that for bulk carriers the angle of heel after an assumed shift of grain
can be found before loading and kept under 12 degrees, and in a general
cargo ship, the stability required for the method of loading can be pre-
determined. In both cases, the loading is then planned to meet the stability
requirements. To provide what is probably the most effective protection,
the principal grain exporting countries appoint surveyors to check fittings
and stability before loading. Later, they supervise the stowing of the grain
so that voids are reduced as far as is practicable.

Oils and petrols are hazardous if they are volatile, i.e. if, at normal tempera-
tures they emit a vapour that can accumulate until an explosive mixture with air
is created. The vapour may be ignited at any mixture if it is raised to a critical
and well defined temperature known as the flashpoint. For heavy and crude
oils, this temperature is quite high, often above the temperature of a cigarette.
Cleaning of empty crude oil tanks by steam hoses has led to several disastrous

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 185 ---
164 Basic ship theory

explosions due to the discharge of electrostatic build-up in the swirling fluid.
International codes cover the use of inert gas systems and precautions against
electrostatic generation in tankers. During crude oil washing oxygen content
must not exceed 8 per cent by volume.

Regulations, in general, provide for:

(a) total isolation of a dangerous oil cargo where possible;

(6) the removal of any possibility of creating ignition or overheating;

(c) adequate ventilation to prevent a build up of vapour to an explosive
mixture;

(d) a comprehensive fire warning and fighting system.

Cofferdams to create an air boundary to oil spaces are a common requirement.

Explosives may be carried by ships which comply with the Merchant Ship-
ping (Dangerous Goods) Rules. Because they must carry explosives where there
is, in wartime, considerable risk of ignition by an enemy, the carriage of explo-
sives in warships requires especial study. General regulations are contained in
Naval Magazines and Explosive Regulations but these must be reviewed in the
light of every new weapon development. The carriage of cordite in silk bags
which were ignited by flash in the Queen Mary at Jutland and, probably, Hood
in the second world war has been long discontinued; fixed robust ammunition
is now carried alongside delicate guided weapons and torpedoes, some with
exotic fuels. No ship construction can prevent the ingress of all offensive
weapons, although the probability of causing catastrophic damage can be
reduced. Structure can be arranged to minimize the effects of any incident and
to this end the magazines are:

(a) isolated and provided with flashtight boundaries;

(6) kept cool by adequate insulation, ventilation and the prohibition of any
electrical and mechanical devices which can be a source of unacceptable heat;

(c) provided with vent plates which permit an excessive pressure caused by
burning to be vented to atmosphere;

(d) provided with fire detection and fighting facilities, often automatic.

Each dangerous or uncomfortable cargo must be examined on its own
merits. Hygroscopic materials such as sisal may absorb much moisture and
become so heavy that safe limits of deadweight or stability are broken; they
may also swell and cause structural damage. Liquid gas is carried at very low
temperatures and, if it leaks, may render the steel with which it comes in contact
so brittle that it fractures instantly. Radioactive materials must, of course, have
their radiations suitably insulated. Hydrogen peroxide combusts in contact
with grease. Even some manure gives off dangerous organic gases.

NUCLEAR MACHINERY

A nuclear reactor is simply a type of boiler. Instead of producing heat by
burning oil, a reactor produces heat by controlled decay of radioactive mater-
ial. The heat is removed by circulation in a primary circuit, whence it is

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 186 ---
Hazards and protection 165

transferred at a heat exchanger to a secondary circuit to turn water into steam
for driving the turbines. Whatever else can go wrong with the reactor there is no
possibility whatever of a nuclear explosion, i.e. an explosion involving nuclear
fission. There are, nevertheless, some unpleasant hazards associated with a
reactor, viz.:

(a) under normal operation, dangerous gamma-rays are emitted from mater-
ials, activated by neutron bombardment. All personnel serving in the ship,
who would be damaged by such rays must be protected by shielding of lead
or other dense material. In the first nuclear merchant ship, the Savannah,
there were nearly 2000 tonnef of shielding and there is similar shielding
in nuclear submarines. Such heavy concentrated weight gives strength
problems. Embrittlement of some materials by this irradiation is a further
hazard;

(5) by mishandling or by accident, precise control of decay may be lost and
radioactive fission products may be released. To contain such products, the
reactor must be surrounded by a containment vessel which is made with
scrupulous care to withstand the pressure build up due to the most serious
credible accident. Safety devices are also built into the automatic control
equipment which regulates the behaviour of the reactor. The subdivision of
the ship referred to earlier is aimed at reducing the chances of loss of
control by collision or grounding damage.

The SOLAS Conferences have made a series of recommendations for the
safety of ships with nuclear reactors and these have now been incorporated into
national law and classification society rules. In addition to the cofferdam
protection discussed earlier, two-compartment standards are required. The
Merchant Shipping Acts and the classification society rules give further
details.

Other hazards
VULNERABILITY OF WARSHIPS

It is not enough to design a ship for normal operations. All ships can have
accidents and warships (and sometimes merchant ships) must withstand action
damage. The ability of a ship to survive in battle depends on its susceptibility to
being hit and its vu/nerability to the effects of a delivered weapon. Susceptibility
can be reduced by reducing the various ship signatures to make it harder to
detect, using jammers to defeat an enemy’s detection systems, using decoys to
seduce weapons that get through these defences and by hard kill weapons to
destroy the incoming projectile or weapon carrier. The details of these defence
systems must be suited to the weapons’ characteristics. Various conventional
weapons are illustrated in Fig. 5.16. They can cause structural failure, flooding,
fire, blast, shock and fragment damage. To combat these requires efficient
structural design, separation, zoning, redundancy, protection and containment.

An underwater explosion is likely to provide the most serious damage. Its
effects are shown in Fig. 5.17. The pulsating bubble of gaseous explosion

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 187 ---
166 Basic ship theory

Low capacity, contact
1 cannon shell,
HE and AP

High capacity, contact
2 HE shell
3 HE bomb
4 HE bomb, near miss
5 contact torpedo

or mine

Medium capacity,

contact

6 missile, sea skimming,
and SAP shell

7 missile, high level

8 medium case bomb

High capacity,

non-contact

9 magnetic-fused
torpedo

10 ground mine

11 proximity-fused
missile

Fig. 5.16 Conventional weapon attack

Shock wave
spray dome

Gas bubble
plumes Air blast

wave

Surface
wave

Surface

Surface

reflected
shock wave Shock
Oscilating front
and migrating
gas bubble me
—>
Bubble

pulse

Bottom
reflected
Bottom shock wave

Fig. 5.17 Effects of an underwater explosion

products contains about half the energy of the explosion and causes pressure
waves which impact upon the hull. The frequency of these waves is close to the
fundamental hull modes of vibration of small ships and the effects are most

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 188 ---
Hazards and protection 167

severe when the explosion occurs beneath the hull and the ship whips. These
motions can lead to buckling and loss of girder strength.

The other major feature of an underwater explosion is the shock wave which
typically contains about a third of the energy of the explosion. It is transmitted
through the water, into and through the ship’s structure causing shock and
possibly hull rupture. The intensity of shock experienced by the ship will
depend upon the size, distance and orientation of the explosion relative to the
ship. These factors are combined in various ways to produce a shock factor.
Since several formulations exist care is needed in their use. The intensity of
shock experienced by an item of equipment will depend additionally upon its
weight, rigidity, position in the ship and method of mounting. For critical
systems (e.g. a nuclear power installation) it may be necessary to deduce the
shock likely at a specific position in a given design. This can be done by
calculation and/or model experiment using methods validated by full scale
trials. More usually equipments will be fitted to several designs and in different
positions, so they must be able to cope with a range of conditions. The
approach is to design to a generalized shock grade curve. The overall design
can be made more robust by providing shock isolation mounts for sensitive
items and by siting system elements in positions where the structure offers more
shock attenuation. This has the advantages that the item itself does not have to
be so strong and the mounts can attenuate any noise the equipment produces,
thus reducing its contribution to the underwater noise signature. The dynamic
response of an item to shock will depend upon its flexibility and this must be
allowed for in calculating its ability to survive and function.

As a guide, designers should avoid cantilevered components, avoid brittle
materials, mount flexibly and ensure that resultant movements are not impeded
by pipe or cable connections and do not cause impact with hard structure. It is
important to allow for the behaviour of materials used when subject to high
rates of strain. Some, notably mild steel, exhibit an increase in yield point
by a factor up to two under these conditions. In warships essential equip-
ment is designed to remain operable up to a level of shock at which the
ship is likely to be lost by hull rupture. The overall design is tested by explod-
ing large charges (up to 500kg) fairly close to the hull of the first ship of
a class.

In order to assess a design’s vulnerability, and to highlight any weak elements
or rectification, each new design of warship is the subject of a vulnerability
assessment. This assesses the probability of various types of attack on the ship,
allowing for its susceptibility. The ability of a ship to withstand each attack and
retain various degrees of fighting capability, and finally survive, is computed.
Essentially, the contribution of each element of the ship and its systems to each
fighting capability (e.g. to detect and destroy an enemy submarine), is estab-
ished. For each form of attack the probability of the individual elements being
rendered non-operative is assessed using a blend of calculation, model and full
scale data. If one element is particularly sensitive, or especially important, it can
be duplicated (or perhaps given special protection) to reduce the overall vulner-
ability. The modelling for these calculations is very similar to that adopted for


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 189 ---
168 Basic ship theory

reliability assessments. Having made the assessments for each form of attack
these can be combined, allowing for the probability of each form, to give an
overall vulnerability for the design. The computations can become quite
lengthy. There are also a number of difficulties which mean that any results must
be carefully interpreted. These include the fact that reduced general services
(electricity or chilled water, say) may be adequate to support some but not all
fighting capabilities. What then happens in battle will depend upon which
capabilities the command needs to deploy. This can be overcome by setting
the vulnerability results in the context of various engagement scenarios. Also,
in many cases, the full consequences of an attack will depend upon the
actions taken by the crew in damage limitation. For instance, how effectively
will they deal with fire, how rapidly will they close doors and valves to limit
flooding? Recourse must be made to exercise data and statistical allowances
made.

Offensive agencies may not cause damage to material but may be none the
less lethal. Gas, bacteria and radioactive particles must be excluded by the crash
closing of an airtight boundary. Deposits are washed away by a pre-wetting
system which drenches the whole ship in salt water spray. A large air burst
explosion such as that from a nuclear weapon causes a blast effect followed by a
slight suction, each of which may cause structural damage against which the
ship may be designed.

The effects of a ship’s weapons on the ship itself must be catered for; blast,
shock, heating, scouring, chemical deposit, recoil loading, noise and physical
obstruction. High intensity transmissions by modern radio and radar can be
hazardous to personnel and can trigger weapons which have not been properly
shielded. This type of radiation hazard is called radhaz.

A good example of protection by dispersion is afforded by the unitization of
machinery in large warships. Each unit, which may comprise more than one
watertight compartment, is self-contained, e.g. in a steam turbine ship it would
include boiler, steam turbine, gearing and auxiliaries. The total electrical gener-
ating capacity of the ship would also be divided amongst the various units. A
ship designed for about 30 knots on two units could attain more than 25 knots
on one unit. Thus, keeping one unit available after damage, affords consider-
able mobility to the ship. A ship unable to move would be a sitting duck for
further attack.

SHIP SIGNATURES

As discussed in the previous section, the ability of a ship to survive depends, in
part, on its susceptibility to detection and attack. Many ways of reducing the
susceptibility lie in the province of the weapons engineers although the naval
architect will be directly concerned with integrating them into the design.
However, the designer will have a direct responsibility for, and influence on
signatures. If these can be kept low, the enemy will have difficulty in detecting
and classifying the target and decoys are more likely to be effective. Each
signature brings its own problems for the designer and they must all be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 190 ---
Hazards and protection 169

considered. To reduce all but one would leave the ship susceptible in that
respect. The signatures of most concern are:

(a) the ship has a natural magnetism which can be used to trip the fuse of a
magnetic mine; such a signature can be counteracted by passing a current
through electric cables wound round the inside of the ship. This is known
as degaussing. Such magnetism can also be caused by induced eddy
currents in a ship, particularly an aluminium alloy ship, rolling and
thereby cutting the earth’s magnetic lines of force;

(5) a point at the bottom of the sea experiences a pressure variation as a ship
passes over it which can be used to trip a fuse in a pressure mine;

(c) the heat given off by a ship produces an infra-red radiation which can be
used to home a guided weapon;

(d) radio and radar emissions can be used to detect the position of a ship and
to home a guided weapon;

(e) underwater noise gives away a ship’s position and can be used for homing;

(f) detritis and hydrodynamic disturbance allows the ship’s track to be
detected many hours after its passage.

GENERAL VULNERABILITY OF SHIPS

Ships are vulnerable to accident at any time but especially in storm conditions.
The statistics of ship casualties over many years enables us to depict the fre-
quency of events which has occurred in the past and to use that pattern to predict
the likelihood of a particular event in the future. For example, it would not be
surprising to discover that all of the lengths of damage due to collision and
grounding which had occurred in the past, showed a frequency density as in Fig.
5.18. The area of any strip 6x represents the fraction of the total number of ships
to have suffered a damage length lying between x; and x; + 6x of ship length.

(sonese length )
F ships length

damage length
ships length

Fig. 5.18

This information could be used to predict that the probability of a damage
length equal to a fraction a of ship length or less occurring to any ship in the
future is given by the area shaded up to a. This is the basis for approach to ship
vulnerability promulgated for merchant ships by IMO in 1973. The probability

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 191 ---
170 Basic ship theory

of two or more independent events is found by multiplying together their
separate probabilities. Thus, the probability that a ship in collision will suffer
a damage length / and a penetration from the side d and at the same time be ina
condition with a permeability yz is given by

P(t) x p(d) x pH)

Moreover, this must be compounded with the probability of collision at a
certain position along the length of the ship. Probability of collision or ground-
ing occurring at all is clearly dependent upon the routeing of the ship which is
affected by the weather, sea state and traffic density met; it will be high in the
English Channel or St Lawrence and low in the Indian Ocean. It must also
depend upon the number and competence of the crew.

The effects upon the ship of a stated set of damage can be found in terms of
trim, flotation and stability for which permissible values have already been
declared. Thus, the vulnerability of the ship—that is to say the likelihood of
unacceptable damage occurring—can be determined from the architecture of
the ship and the probability density functions for: position of damage; length of
damage; penetration of damage; permeability at the time of damage; occur-
rence of an incident; crew competence.

‘Standard’ shapes for the first four of these have been proposed by IMO who
have also described how they should be applied. There are so many variables
that computer programs have been written for the calculation. Similar standard
functions have been in use by various navy departments for some while to
determine the vulnerabilities of warships which are subjected to weapons with
different homing devices and explosive content.

A steady change to probabilistic standards, begun in Code A265, is IMO’s
aim. Both passenger ship vulnerability and, from 1992, cargo ship safety are
examined in this way. These standards should not be applied blindly or to the
exclusion of an examination of compartment standard or, indeed, from a
complete safety survey to be considered in Chapter 15.

The probabilistic standards are formulated upon a required subdivision
index, R, such that:

R = (0.002 +0.009L,)'* to be compared with an achieved subdivision
index, A,
A = ¥¢p;S; where p = the probability of flooding a compartment i and
S = the probability of survival after flooding compartment i,
S = Cy/0.5GZmax (range) and C = ,/(30 — 6,)/5 or = Lif @. < 25° or =0
if 0. > 30°
6. = equilibrium angle in degrees.

There are many caveats to these basic requirements known commonly (but
incorrectly) as SOLAS 90. Note that there is no direct relationship between the
value of A obtained from these crude formulae and the actual survivability
standards of a ship which owners would wish to know as part of their safety
survey.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 192 ---
Hazards and protection 171

It is not easy, once it is acknowledged that nothing is absolutely safe or
absolutely reliable, to declare a probability of catastrophe which, however tiny,
is nevertheless acceptable. Actuaries have had to make such judgments for
many years of course in settling the levels of premium for insurance involving
human life. Such a cold declaration in monetary terms does not commend itself
to the public, whose outrage at a particular catastrophe may be whipped up by
the press. Nevertheless, a standard of acceptable probability must be declared
and this will fall to national authorities and insurers, generally on the basis of
what has been found acceptable in the past.

Abnormal Waves

Abnormal waves can be created by a combination of winds, currents and
seabed topography. A ship may be heading into waves 8 m high when suddenly
the bow falls into a long, sloping trough so that in effect it is steaming downhill.
At the bottom it may meet a steep wall of water, perhaps 18m high and about
to break, bearing down on it at 30 knots.

Vessels can suffer severe damage. In 1973 the 12,000 grt Bencruachan had the
whole bow section forward of the break of the 36.6m long forecastle bent
downwards at 7 degrees by the impact of a 15m wave. A 15,000 dwt freighter
was broken in two by a freak wave on its maiden voyage. The VLCC Athene
met a 30m wave which knocked out all the windows of the crows nest, nearly
8m above the laden sea level. Even very large ships can be overwhelmed by
exceptional sea conditions.

Mariners have always been aware that ‘freak’ waves could be experienced but

or many years it was thought that they could not be predicted or quantified,
and so could not be taken into account during the design process. By basing a
new ship on a previously successful one it was hoped it could survive in other
han very abnormal conditions. It did not follow, however, that the basis ship
had met the most extreme waves that might be encountered in service.
As with so many other aspects of naval architecture this is a matter where
statistics can be employed although our knowledge is still imperfect. The
so-called freak waves are not unexplained quirks of nature and oceanographers
can calculate their probability of occurrence, assisted by extensive wave data
rom buoys, ships and satellites. Buckley and Faulkner have done a lot of work
in this area. They support retaining the present design methods for dealing with
he normal operations of ships. They suggest these methods should be supple-
mented with procedures intended to give a ship at least some low safety
capability to survive critical operational conditions under abnormal waves,
unlikely as the ship may be to encounter these waves. To do this requires
establishing the critical design conditions, associated seaway criteria and ana-
lytical methods and criteria.

Critical design conditions would include failure of main propulsion or the
steering system, loss of rudder and so on. That is the designer should allow for the
ship suffering a range of defects which degrade its capabilities. They should also,
as far as may be possible, make allowance for human error. That is they should


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 193 ---
172 Basic ship theory

try to foresee the consequences of human actions which might not be the best in
the circumstances. Whilst human error cannot be eliminated it may be possible to
reduce the consequences by making the design more tolerant of such errors.

As to waves, opinions are hardening up as more data becomes available.
Students should refer to the latest ideas, for instance, the work of Hogben and
oceanographers. Longuet-Higgins has suggested that the extreme wave height
during the chosen survival design storm is given by

H,[0.5(InN — In(—In(1 — pe)))]°°

where p, is a small but acceptable probability of H, being exceeded, perhaps less
than 5% during N wave encounters. N is given by dividing the length of time
considered by the wave period 7,. Separately it has been proposed that, in
metric units, the range of waves considered should embrace

T; from 13 to 30 times the significant wave height.

Amongst other things, the naval architect must design for the impact loads
arising from the severe waves both on near vertical structures such as bridge
fronts and on decks and hatch covers.

Environmental pollution

Besides ensuring that the ship can meet the hazards imposed on it by the
environment, it is important to ensure that the ship itself does not hazard the
environment. Under one of the fundamental conventions of IMO, MARPOL,
requirements are laid down to restrict or totally prevent pollution in certain
areas of sea particularly those close to land and in land-locked seas such as the
Mediterranean. These deal with oil, sewage, food disposal and packaging
materials. Ships must either store waste products or process them on board.
Sewage treatment plants can be fitted to turn raw sewage into an inoffensive
effluent that can be pumped overboard; incinerators can burn many packaging
materials; crushers can compact waste so that it can be stored more conveni-
ently. Standards for any effluent pumped overboard and the composition gases
emanating from incinerators are kept under regular review. Suitable means for
disposing stored material must be available at ports of call.

Modern society is very concerned with all aspects of pollution and the con-
straints upon the seafarer are gradually becoming more severe. For instance,
the application of hull anti-fouling coatings containing tributyltin (TBT) are
prohibited after January 2003. Fortunately TBT-free coatings are now available
from industry.

Problems

1. A water lighter is in the form of a rectangular barge, 42.7m long by 5.5m
beam, floating at an even draught of 2.44 m in sea water. Its centre of gravity
is 1.83 m above the keel. What will be the new draughts at the four corners if

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 194 ---
Hazards and protection 173

20 m3 of fresh water are pumped out from an amidships tank whose centre
of volume is 0.3m from the port side and 0.91 m above the keel? Ignore free
surface effects.

A box-form vessel, 150m long, 50m wide and 20m deep floats on an even
keel with a draught of 6m in salt water. A transverse watertight bulkhead
is fitted 25m from the forward end. If the compartment thus formed is
open to the sea, estimate the new draughts forward and aft to the nearest
centimetre.

A methane carrier, displacing 6000 m? floats at draughts of 5.1m forward
and 5.8m aft, measured at marks which are 80.5m forward and 67.5m aft
amidships. The vessel grounds, on a falling tide, on a rock at a position 28 m
forward of amidships. Calculate the force on the ship’s bottom and the new
draughts after the tide has fallen 25cm.

The rock then ruptures the bottom and opens to the sea, a compartment
between two transverse bulkheads 14.5m and 28.5 m forward of amidships
and between two longitudinal bulkheads 5.2 m each side of the centre line.
Estimate the draughts of the ship when the tide has risen to float the ship
free.

The hydrostatic curves show for about these draughts:

WP area = 1850 m° Length BP = 166m
CF abaft amidships = 6m
GM, = 550m

A catamaran is made up of two hulls, each 80m long and with centres 30m
apart. The constant cross-section of each hull has the form of an equilateral
triangle, each side being of 10m length. The draught of the craft is 4m and
its KG is 10m.

Calculate the heeling couple and the angle of heel necessary to bring one
hull just clear of the water, assuming that the broadside wind force does not
effectively increase the displacement.

Each of the hulls has main bulkheads 10 m each side of amidships. If these
central compartments were both open to the sea, calculate the virtual GM of
the craft in the bilged condition, comparing the added weight and lost
buoyancy methods.

. Aship displacing 2255 tonnef and 110m in length has grounded on a rock at

a point 33.5 m forward of amidships. At low water the draughts forward and
aft are 2.72m and 4.04m respectively. Given the following hydrostatic
particulars of the ship in level trim and taking the KG as 5.04 m, calculate;
(i) the force on the rock at low tide; (ii) the virtual GM at low tide; (iii) the
rise in tide necessary to refloat the ship.

Mean draught Displacement LCB VCB_ LCF BM, BMry
(m) (tonnef) (m aft) (m) (m aft) (m) (m)

3.66 2235 2.32 2.26 6.97 287.4 3.71
3.35 1970 1.72 2.08 6.33 312.7) 4.14

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 195 ---
174 Basic ship theory

6. A ship, for which the hydrostatic particulars of the preceding question
apply at level trim, has a length of 110m and displaces 2067 tonnef at level
trim and with a KG of 5.08 m. A collision causes uncontrollable flooding of
the auxiliary machinery space. Calculate (a) the final draughts at the
forward and aft perpendiculars; (4) the virtual GM in the bilged condition.
Particulars of the flooded compartment are as follows: after bulkhead,
6.1m forward of amidships, length of compartment, 6.1m, beam above
3.05m waterline assumed constant at 11.58m, area of section assumed
constant at 29.7 m? up to 3.05 m waterline, centroid of section above keel,
2.01 m. Hydrostatic data may be linearly extrapolated when required.

7. A rectangular pontoon, 300m x 12m x 4m draught, is divided by a longi-
tudinal bulkhead at the middle line and by four equally spaced transverse
bulkheads. The metacentric height is 2m. Find the draughts at the four
corners when one corner compartment is bilged. Ignore rotation of the
principal axes of the waterplane.

8. A box-shaped vessel 100m long and 20 m broad, floats at a draught of 6m
forward and 10m aft, the metacentric height being 2.25 m. Find the virtual
metacentric height when the keel just touches level blocks throughout its
length.

9. A vessel of box form, 150 m long and 25 m broad, floats at an even draught of
8m, and has a watertight deck 8.5m above the keel. If a central compart-
ment, 30m long, bounded by two transverse bulkheads extending up to the
deck, is bilged, what will be (a) the new draught of the vessel, (5) the alteration
in metacentric height if the water admitted is regarded as lost buoyancy.

10. A ship 120m long and floating at a level draught of 4.0m has a displace-
ment vol = 3140m°. Its centre of gravity is 5.1 m above the keel and, at the
4m waterline, the TPM = 1200, MCT = 8000 tonnef m/m, KB = 2.2m
and the centre of flotation is 5.1 m abaft amidships.

After striking a rock at a point 2m abaft the fore perpendicular, the
foremost 7m are flooded up to the waterline. The displacement lost up to
the 4m waterline is 40m? with its centre of buoyancy, 4.5m abaft the FP
and 2m above the keel. Twenty square metres of waterplane are lost, with
the centroid 4.5m abaft the FP

Making reasonable assumptions, estimate: (a) the force on the rock
immediately after the accident; (b) the force on the rock when the tide
has fallen 30 cm; (c) the rise of tide necessary to lift the bow just clear of the
rock.

11. The following particulars refer to a 30,500 tonnef aircraft carrier:

length, 213m KB, 4.88 m

beam, 274m = KG, 9.14m
draught, 8.53m TPC, 40 tonnef/em
GMr, 1.83m

The design is modified by increasing all athwartships dimensions by 3 per
cent, and all longitudinal dimensions by 2 per cent. The weight of the flight
deck armour is adjusted to limit the increase in displacement to 914 tonnef.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 196 ---
12.

13.

14.

15.

Hazards and protection 175

It should be assumed that the height of the flight deck above keel remains
constant at 21.3m and that the weight of the ship varies directly as the
length and beam.

In compiling the flooding board for the ship, a compartment 18.3 m long
by 6.1 m wide is assumed flooded, and open to the sea. If the compartment
extends the full depth of the ship, with its centre 12.2 m to starboard of the
middle line, estimate the resulting angle of heel. The effects of changing
trim should be ignored.

A vessel of length 120m between perpendiculars floats at a uniform
draught of 5.0m with the following particulars:

Displacement, 3000 tonnef

WP area, 1300 m?

CF abaft amidships, 3m

CB above keel, 2.70 m

CG above keel, 4.52m

Transverse metacentre above keel, 6.62 m
MCT BP, 7300 tonnef m/m

It may be assumed to be wall-sided in the region of the waterplane.

The vessel is involved in an accident in which 60 tonnef outer bottom
(with centre of gravity at keel level and 3.2 m from the middle line) are torn
away and a compartment 3.1 m wide and 7.9 m long is opened to the sea.

Estimate the resulting angle of heel, assuming that the compartment
extends from keel level to above the new waterplane and neglecting any
change of trim. The centroids of volume and plan area of the flooded
compartment are 3.0m from the middle line.

A ship 120m BP for which hydrostatic and other data are given in question
12, floats at a uniform draught of 5.0m.

The vessel grounds on a rock at keel level, 20m forward of amidships
and 3.0m from the middle line. Making reasonable assumptions, calculate
the force on the rock and the angle of heel when the tide has fallen 15cm.
A rectangular pontoon 3.66 m deep, 10.97 m wide and 32 m long is divided
into three equal sections by two transverse bulkheads. The centre compart-
ment is further subdivided into three equal compartments by two longi-
tudinal bulkheads. All compartments extend the full depth of the pontoon.
The centre of gravity is 1.83 m above the keel.

The pontoon is damaged in such a way that the three central compart-
ments are open to the sea at keel level. Of the three compartments, the
centre one is vented at deck level and the wing compartments are airtight
above keel level. The draught after damage is 2.19 m and the depth of water
in the wing tanks is 0.52m. The position of the centre of gravity of the
pontoon may be assumed unaffected.

Calculate the virtual metacentric height in the damaged condition,
assuming that the height of the sea water barometer is 10m.

A ship floating at a draught of 2m has a hole of area 0.3 m? in the bottom
at the keel, giving access to a rectangular compartment right across the


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 197 ---
176 Basic ship theory

16.

ship. The compartment is 10m long and has an even permeability of 0.80
throughout. This ship has initially WP area = 300 m7. Its length is 70m,
beam 8 m and it does not trim due to the damage. Calculate how long it will
be before the maximum flooded draught occurs.

Calculate the probability of losing half and total power of worked example
1, assuming that there was no 15m separation of the machinery units.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 198 ---
6 The ship girder

Few who have been to sea in rough weather can doubt that the structure of
a ship is subject to strain. Water surges and crashes against the vessel which
responds with groans and shudders and creaks; the bow is one moment surging
skywards, the next buried beneath green seas; the fat middle of the ship is one
moment comfortably supported by a wave and the next moment abandoned to
a hollow. The whole constitutes probably the most formidable and complex of
all structural engineering problems in both the following aspects:

(a) the determination of the loading
(5) the response of the structure.

As with most complex problems, it is necessary to reduce it to a series of unit
problems which can be dealt with individually and superimposed. The smallest
units of structure which have to be considered are the panels of plating and
single stiffeners which are supported at their extremities by items which are very
stiff in comparison; they are subject to normal and edge loads under the action
of which their dishing, bowing and buckling behaviour relative to the supports
may be assessed. Many of these small units together constitute large flat or
curved surfaces of plating and sets of stiffeners called grillages, supported at
their edges by bulkheads or deck edges which are very stiff in comparison; they
are subject to normal and edge loading and their dishing and buckling behaviour
as a unit relative to their supports may be assessed. Finally, many bulkheads,
grillages and decks, together constitute a complete hollow box whose behaviour
as a box girder may be assessed. It is to this last unit, the whole ship girder, that
this chapter is confined, leaving the smaller units for later consideration.

Excluding inertia loads due to ship motion, the loading on a ship derives
from only two sources, gravity and water pressure. It is impossible to conceive
a state of the sea whereby the loads due to gravity and water pressure exactly
cancel out along the ship’s length. Even in still water, this is exceedingly

1 +

Fig. 6.1

177

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 199 ---
178 Basic ship theory

unlikely but in a seaway where the loading is changing continuously, it is
inconceivable. There is therefore an uneven loading along the ship and, because
it is an elastic structure, it bends. It bends as a whole unit, like a girder on an
elastic foundation and is called the ship girder. The ship will be examined as a
floating beam subject to the laws deduced in other textbooks for the behaviour
of beams.

In still water, the loading due to gravity and water pressure are, of course,
weight and buoyancy. The distribution of buoyancy along the length follows
the curve of areas while the weight is conveniently assessed in unit lengths and
might, typically, result in the block diagram of Fig. 6.2. (Clearly, the areas
representing total weight and total buoyancy must be equal.) This figure would

A
4 pS

Fig. 6.2 Still water hogging

give the resultants dotted which would make the ship bend concave downwards
or hog. The reverse condition is known as sagging. Because it is not difficult to
make some of the longer cargo ships break their backs when badly loaded,
consideration of the still water hogging or sagging is vital in assessing a suitable
cargo disposition. It is the first mate’s yardstick of structural strength.

It is not difficult to imagine that the hog or sag of a ship could be much
increased by waves. A long wave with a crest amidships would increase the
upward force there at the expense of the ends and the hogging of the ship would
be increased. If there were a hollow amidships and crests towards the ends
sagging would be increased (Fig. 6.3). The loads to which the complete hull
girder is subject are, in fact:

(a) those due to the differing longitudinal distribution of the downward forces
of weight and the upward forces of buoyancy, the ship considered at rest in
still water;

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 200 ---
The ship girder 179

Fig. 6.3 Sagging on a wave

(5) the additional loads due to the passage of a train of waves, the ship
remaining at rest;

(c) loads due to the superposition on the train of waves of the waves caused by
the motion of the ship itself through still water;

(d) the variations of the weight distribution due to the accelerations caused by
ship motion.

Consideration of the worst likely loading effected by (a) and (0) is the basis of
the standard calculation. The effects of (c) and (d) are smaller and are not
usually taken into account except partly by the statistical approach outlined
later.

The standard calculation

This is a simple approach but one that has stood the test of time. It relies on a
comparison of a new design with previous successful design. The calculated
stresses are purely notional and based on those caused by a single wave of
length equal to the ship’s length, crest normal to the middle line plane and with

(a) acrest amidships and a hollow at each end causing maximum hogging, and
(5) a hollow amidships and a crest at each end causing maximum sagging.

The ship is assumed to be momentarily still, balanced on the wave with zero
velocity and acceleration and the response of the sea is assumed to be that
appropriate to static water. In this condition, the curves of weight and buoy-
ancy are deduced. Subtracted one from the other, the curves give a curve of net
loading p’. Now, a fundamental relationship at a point in an elastic beam is

,_ dS 2M

Pe de

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 201 ---
180 Basic ship theory

where p’ is the load per unit length, S is the shearing force, M is the bending
moment, and x defines the position along the beam.

2S= [pas and m= [ sav

p Load/unit length | L !

Fig. 6.4 Loading curve, p'

Thus, the curve of loading p’ must be integrated along its length to give a curve
of shearing force and the curve of shearing force must be integrated along its
length to give the bending moment curve. From the maximum bending
moment, a figure of stress can be obtained,

stress 0 = —y
T>

J/y being the modulus of the effective structural section.
A closer look at each of the constituents of this brief summary is now needed.

Fig. 6.5 Simplified structural section

THE WAVE

Whole books have been written about ocean waves. Nevertheless, there is
no universally accepted standard ocean wave which may be assumed for the
standard longitudinal strength calculation. While the shape is agreed to be
trochoidal, the observed ratios of length to height are so scattered that many
‘standard’ lines can be drawn through them. Fortunately, this is not of primary
importance; while the calculation is to be regarded as comparative, provided
that the same type of wave is assumed throughout for design and type ships, the
comparison is valid.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 202 ---
The ship girder 181

A trochoid is a curve produced by a point at radius r within a circle of radius
R rolling on a flat base. The equation to a trochoid with respect to the axes
shown in Fig. 6.6, is

x= RO-rsind

z=r(1 —cos@)

Fig. 6.6 Construction of a trochoid

One accepted standard wave is that having a height from trough to crest of one
twentieth of its length from crest to crest. In this case, L=27R and
r = h/2 = L/40 and the equation to the wave is

L L.
v= 5 8—qpsind
L
z= al — cos 0)

The co-ordinates of this wave at equal intervals of x are:

SG O 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

a
|

Z 0 0.034 0.128 0.266 0.421 0.577 0.720 0.839 0.927 0.982 1.0

Research has shown that the L/20 wave is somewhat optimistic for wave-
lengths from 90m up to about 150m in length. Above 150m, the L/20 wave
becomes progressively more unsatisfactory and at 300m is probably so exag-
gerated in height that it is no longer a satisfactory criterion of comparison. This
has resulted in the adoption of a trochoidal wave of height 0.607\/L as a
standard wave in the comparative longitudinal strength calculation. This wave
has the equation

L 0.607/L .
x= an? - —,7 sin 0
x,z and L in metres
0.607, /L
z= 0.607VE ( — cos 6)

2

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 203 ---
182 Basic ship theory

The 0.607,/L wave has the slight disadvantage that it is not non-dimensional,
and units must be checked with care when using this wave and the formulae
derived from it. Co-ordinates for plotting are conveniently calculated from the
equations above for equal intervals of 6.

The length of the wave is, strictly, taken to be the length of the ship on the
load waterline; in practice, because data is more readily available for the
displacement stations, the length is often taken between perpendiculars (if this
is different) without making an appreciable difference to the bending moment.
Waves of length slightly greater than the ship’s length can, in fact, produce
theoretical bending moments slightly in excess of those for waves equal to the
ship’s length, but this has not been an important factor while the calculation
continued to be comparative.

Waves steeper than L/7 cannot remain stable. Standard waves of size L/9
are used not uncommonly for the smaller coastal vessels. It is then a somewhat
more realistic basis of comparison.

WEIGHT DISTRIBUTION

Consumable weights are assumed removed from those parts of the ship where
this aggravates the particular condition under investigation; in the sagging
condition, they are removed from positions near the ends and, in the hogging
condition, they are removed amidships. The influence lines of a similar design
should be consulted before deciding where weights should be removed, and the
decision should be verified when the influence lines for the design have been
calculated (see later), provided that the weights are small enough.

The longitudinal distribution of the weight is assessed by dividing the ship
into a large number of intervals. Twenty displacement intervals are usually
adequate. The weight falling within each interval is assessed for each item or
group in the schedule of weights and tabulated. Totals for each interval divided
by the length give mean weights per unit length. It is important that the centre
of gravity of the ship divided up in this way should be in the correct position.
To ensure this, the centre of gravity of each individual item should be checked
after it has been distributed.

One of the major items of weight requiring distribution is the hull itself, and
this will sometimes be required before detailed structural design of the hull has
been completed. A useful first approximation to the hull weight distribution is
obtained by assuming that two-thirds of its weight follows the still water
buoyancy curve and the remaining one-third is distributed in the form of a
trapezium, so arranged, that the centre of gravity of the whole hull is in its
correct position (Fig. 6.7).

Having obtained the mean weight per unit length for each interval, it is
plotted as the mid-ordinate of the interval and a straight line is drawn through
it, parallel to the chord of the buoyancy curve. This is a device for simplifying
later stages of the calculation which introduces usually insignificant inaccur-
acies. A sawtooth distribution of weight per unit length, as shown in Fig. 6.3,
results.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 204 ---
The ship girder 183

Fig. 6.7 Approximate hull weight distribution

BUOYANCY AND BALANCE

If the standard calculation is performed by hand, the wave is drawn on tracing
paper and placed over the contracted profile of the ship on which the Bonjean
curve has been drawn at each ordinate. Figure 6.8 shows one such ordinate. It is
necessary for equilibrium to place the wave at a draught and trim such that

(a) the displacement equals the weight and
(5) the centre of buoyancy lies in the same vertical plane as the centre of
gravity.

Fig. 6.8

Simple hydrostatic pressure is assumed; the areas immersed at each ordinate
can be read from the Bonjean curves where the wave profile cuts the ordinate,
and these areas are subjected to normal approximate integration to give
displacement and LCB position. The position of the wave to meet the two
conditions can be found by trial and error. It is usual to begin at a draught to
the midships point of the trochoid about 85 per cent of still water draught for
the hogging condition and 120 per cent for the sagging wave. A more positive
way of achieving balance involves calculating certain new tools. Consider a
typical transverse section of the ship, xm forward of amidships, at which the
Bonjean curve shows the area immersed by the first trial wave surface to be
Am’.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 205 ---
184 Basic ship theory

If Vm? and Mm‘ are the volume of displacement and the moment of this
volume before amidships for the trial wave surface, then, over the immersed
length

v= [ Advandm = [ aves

Suppose that Vo m? and My m4 are the volume of displacement and moment
figures for equilibrium in still water and that V is less than Vo and M is less
than Mo. The adjustment to be made to the trial wave waterline is therefore a
parallel sinkage and a trim by the bow in order to make V = Vo and M = Mp.
Let this parallel sinkage at amidships be zp and the change of trim be m radians,
then the increased immersion at the typical section is

z= (zo +mx)m

Let the slope of the Bonjean curve be s = dA/dzm. Assuming that the Bonjean
curve is straight over this distance, then

A+2s= A+ (zo +mx)sm?

Fig. 6.9

In order to satisfy the two conditions, V = Vo and M = Mo, therefore,

[is + (zo + mx)s| dx = Vo

and

[is + (zo + mx)s]xdx = Mo
Now put

/ sdx = 6V m?

/ sxdx = 6M m3

Jo dx = 61 m*

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 206 ---
The ship girder 185

Then

zo: 6V +mbM = Vo -V
and

zo 6M + méI = My — M

6V, 6M and 6é/ can all be calculated by approximate integration from meas-
urement of the Bonjean curves. From the pair of simultaneous equations above
the required sinkage zp and trim m can be calculated. A check that this wave
position in fact gives the required equilibrium should now be made. If the trial
waterplane was a poor choice, the process may have to be repeated. Negative
values of zo and m, mean that a parallel rise and a trim by the stern are required.

Having achieved a balance, the curve of buoyancy per metre can be drawn as
a smooth curve. It will have the form shown in Fig. 6.2 for the hogging
calculation and that of Fig. 6.3 for the sagging condition.

LOADING, SHEARING FORCE AND BENDING MOMENT

Because the weight curve has been drawn parallel to the buoyancy curve, the
difference between the two, which represents the net loading p’ for each inter-
val, will comprise a series of rectangular blocks. Using now the relationship
S = f p' dx, the loading curve is integrated to obtain the distribution of shear-
ing force along the length of the ship. The integration is a simple cumulative
addition starting from one end and the shearing force at the finishing end
should, of course, be zero; in practice, due to the small inaccuracies of the
preceding steps, it will probably have a small value. This is usually corrected by
canting the base line, i.e. applying a correction at each section in proportion to
its distance from the starting point.

The curve of shearing force obtained is a series of straight lines. This curve is
now integrated in accordance with the relationship M = f Sdx to obtain the
distribution of bending moment M. Integration is again a cumulative addition
of the areas of each trapezium and the inevitable final error, which should be
small, is distributed in the same way as is the shearing force error. If the error is
large, the calculations must be repeated using smaller intervals for the weight
distribution.

The integrations are performed in a methodical, tabular fashion as shown in
the example below. In plotting the curves, there are several important features
which arise from the expression

_dS_@M
dx dx

which will assist and act as checks. These are

a

(a) when p’ is zero, S is a maximum or a minimum and a point of inflexion
occurs in the M curve.

(b) when p’ is a maximum, a point of inflexion occurs in the S curve,

(c) when S is zero, M is a maximum or minimum.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 207 ---
186 Basic ship theory

Fig. 6.10 Typical loading, shearing force and bending moment curves

A typical set of curves is shown in Fig. 6.10.

EXAMPLE |. The mean immersed cross-sectional areas between ordinates of a
ship, 300m in length, balanced on a hogging wave, as read from the Bonjean
curves are given below, together with the mass distribution. The second
moment of area of the midship section is 752m* and the neutral axis is
9.30m from the keel and 9.70m from the deck.

Calculate the maximum direct stresses given by the comparative calculation
and the maximum shearing force.

Making the assumption that the second moment of area is constant along the
length, estimate the difference in slope between ordinates number 4 and 10 and
the deflection of the middle relative to the ends.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 208 ---
The ship girder 187

Ordinate 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Area A. m? 10.5 49.5 243 490 633 565 302 71 2.5 0.5
Mass M,Mg 5030 6790 10,670 9900 9370 7830 9260 6400 4920 2690
Solution: Integrate in tabular form using trapezoidal rule
Ordinate spacing = 30m
MMg 981m 1000kg
Weight per metre . : 327 M,N/m
em P 30 m s Mg “N/
1.026Mg 9.81m 1000k,
Buoyancy per metre = Am°?- 5 g. ——: g 10,060 4, N/m
m s*
a b c d e f g h i j k
Ord. wt./m  buoy./m load/m oSF SF midSF  6BM BM corrn. BM
I 10,060.4
ta 79° «be 30d de 30g <h
(MN) (MN) (MN) (MN) (MN) (MN) (MN) (MNm) (MNm)
1 0 0 0
0.880 0.005 0.875 26.25 13.13 394
2 26.25 394 —4 390
1.609 0.025 1.584 47.52 50.01 1500
3 73.77 1894 -8 1886
2.093 0.714 1.379 41.37 94.46 2834
4 115.14 4728 —12 4716
3.028 3.038 —0.010  —0.30 114.99 3450
5 114.84 8178 —16 8162
2.560 5.684 —3.124 —93.72 67.98 2039
6 21.12 10,217 —20 10,197
3.064 6.368 —3.304 —99.12 —28.44 —853
7 —78.00 9364 —24 9340
3.237 4.929 —1.692 —50.76 —103.38 —3101
8 —128.76 6263 —28 6235
3.489 2.445 1.044 31.32 —113.10 —3393
9 —97.44 2870 = =—32 2838
2.220 0.498 1.722 51.66 —71.61 —2148
10 —45.78 722. —36 686
1.645 0.106 1.539 46.17 —22.70 —681
11 0.39 41 —40 1
Maximum shearing force = 128.76 MN

Maximum bending moment = 10.220 MN m (by plotting column k)

10.220 MNm
Keel stress. = ————_—_
752 m*

10,220 2 .

Deck stress = 73 x 9.7 = 132N/mm? (8.6 tonf /in’)
, 6

Slope = [™ dx = dy = 10

El. dx 0.208 x 752 .

x 9.3m = 126.5N/mm? (8.2 tonf/in’)

[sav and y= [Sex
Y= fay

Columns e and h are not strictly necessary to this table since the multiplier 30 could have been
applied at the end; they have been included merely to give the student an idea of the values
expressed in meganewtons.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 209 ---
188 Basic ship theory

a b c d e f g h i
Ord BM mid BM Xe  midd Ne y=5.75f chord h-g
(MNm) (MN m’) (10-5)
1 0 0 0 0 0
195 98
2 390 195 98
1138 764
3 1886 1333 862
3301 2984
4 4716 4634 3846
6439 7854
5 8162 11,073 11,700 0.066 0.484 0.418
9180 15,663
6 10,197 20,253 27,363 0.154 0.605 0.451
9769 25,138
7 9340 30,022 52,501 0.296 0.726 0.430
T7188 33,916
8 6235 37,810 86,417
4537 40,079
9 2838 42,347 126,496
1762 43,228
10 686 44,109 169,724
343 44,280
11 1 44,452 214,004 1.209 1.209
Diffe ce in sl 4—10 Ords 10 44,109 — 4634) x 30 = 0.0076 radians
ifference in slope rds. = 759g x 753 ( ; ) x 30=0. radians

= 0.0076 x 180 x 60 = 26 minutes of arc
T

6
Deflection y = 30% 3010" 6 _ 5.756 x 10-6
Y= 0208 x 752

Central deflection = 0.451 m

Column h is necessary because, as shown in Fig. 6.11 by integrating from no. 1 ord., zero slope
has been assumed there; to obtain deflection relative to the ends, the chord deflection must be
subtracted.

Deflection

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 210 ---
The ship girder 189

SECOND MOMENT OF AREA

It is now necessary to calculate the second moment of area, J, of the section of
the ship girder. For a simple girder this is a straightforward matter. For a ship
girder composed of plates and sections which may not extend far longitudinally
or which might buckle under compressive load or which may be composed of
differing materials, a certain amount of adjustment may be judged necessary.
Unless there is some good reason to the contrary (such as inadequate jointing in
a wood sheathed or armoured deck), it is assumed here that local structural
design has been sufficient to prevent buckling or tripping or other forms of load
shirking. In fact, load shirking by panels having a width/thickness ratio in
excess of seventy is likely and plating contribution should be limited to seventy
times the thickness (see Chapter 7). No material is assumed to contribute to the
section modulus unless it is structurally continuous for at least half the length
of the ship amidships. Differing materials are allowed for in the manner
described on the next page. In deciding finally on which parts of the cross
section to include, reference should be made to the corresponding assumptions
made for the designs with which final stress comparisons are made. Similar
comparisons are made also about members which shirk their load.

Having decided which material to include, the section modulus is calculated
in a methodical, tabular form. An assumed neutral axis (ANA) is first taken
near the mid-depth. Positions and dimensions of each item forming the struc-
tural mid-section are then measured and inserted into a table of the following

type:

Table 6.1

Modulus calculation

1 2 3 4 5 6 7

Item A h Ah Al? KP Ak?
(cm?) (m) (cm?m) (cm?m*) (m2) (cm? m’)

Each item

above ANA

Totals above ANA > A, Ah YAN; Aki

Each item

below ANA

Totals below ANA YD Ad MA Yo Ahy Yd Aok3

where A = cross-sectional area of item, 4 = distance from ANA, k = radius of gyration of the
structural element about its own NA.
Subscript 1 is used to denote material above the ANA and subscript 2 for material below.

hy — So Adhy

Distance of true NA above ANA = yA =d

VA + 30 Ad
Second moment of area about true NA
= DAM HD ANG + DAK HY AK (OA + DA)? = 7

Lever above true neutral axis from NA to deck at centre = yp
Lever below true neutral axis from NA to keel = yx


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 211 ---
190 Basic ship theory

True neutral axis

For plate k?= g

Fig. 6.12

The strength section of some ships is composed of different materials, steel,
light alloy, wood or plastic. How is the second moment of area calculated for
these composite sections? Consider a simple beam composed of two materials,
suffixes a and b. From the theory of beams, it is known that the stress is directly
proportional to the distance from the neutral axis and that, if R is the radius of
curvature of the neutral axis and E is the elastic modulus,

t Ey
stress 0 =—h
R

Stress o

A=area of element
g=stress at element

Fig. 6.13 Composite section

Consider the typical element of area A of Fig. 6.13. For equilibrium of the
cross-section, the net force must be zero, therefore

X(oaAa + opA) = 0

Ey E
x (= Aalta + Ash) =0

ie.

Ey
2 (dal + FAs) =0

a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 212 ---
The ship girder 191

Now the contribution to the bending moment by the element A is the force
oA multiplied by the distance from the neutral axis, 4. For the whole section,

M = X(agAaha + op Aphy)

E, Ey

= z Dy (4ste + E A)
Ey

~ RO

where Jerr is the effective second moment of area.

It follows from the equations above that the composite section may be
assumed composed wholly of material a, provided that an effective area of
material b, (E,/£,)Ap, be used instead of its actual area. The areas of material b
used in columns 2, 4, 5 and 7 of Table 6.1 must then be the actual areas
multiplied by the ratio of the elastic moduli. The ratio E,/£, for different steels
is approximately unity; for wood/steel it is about t in compression and + in
tension. For aluminium alloy/steel it is about 5 and for glass reinforced plastic/

steel it is between 4 and +. The figures vary with the precise alloys or mixtures

IS 30°

and should be checked.

BENDING STRESSES

Each of the constituents of the equation, o = (M/J)y, has now been calculated,
maximum bending moment M, second moment of area, J, and the levers y for
two separate conditions, hogging and sagging. Values of the maximum direct
stress at deck and keel arising from the standard comparative longitudinal
strength calculation can thus be found.

Direct stresses occurring in composite sections are, following the work of the
previous section

: terial Exyy M
in material a, o, = -—y
“OR Tar?
in material b. Foy _ My Ex
» Ob= = a
Rese Ea

It is at this stage that the comparative nature of the calculation is apparent,
since it is now necessary to decide whether the stresses obtained are acceptable
or whether the strength section needs to be modified. It would, in fact, be rare
good fortune if this was unnecessary, although it is not often that the balance
has to be repeated in consequence. The judgment on the acceptable level of
stress is based on a comparison with similar ships in similar service for which a
similar calculation has previously been performed. This last point needs careful
checking to ensure that the same wave has been used and that the same
assumptions regarding inclusion of material in weight and modulus calcula-
tions are made. For example, a device was adopted many years ago to allow for
the presence of rivet holes, either by decreasing the effective area of section on
the tension side by 7, or by increasing the tensile stress in the ratio 4. Although

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 213 ---
192 Basic ship theory

this had long been known to be an erroneous procedure, some authorities
continued to use it in order to maintain the basis for comparison for many
years.

Stresses different from those found acceptable for the type ships may be
considered on the following bases:

(a) Length of ship. An increase of acceptable stress with length is customary
on the grounds that standard waves at greater lengths are less likely to be
met. This is more necessary with the L/20 wave than the 0.607\/L wave for
which the probability varies less with length. If a standard thickness is
allowed for corrosion, it will constitute a smaller proportion of the mod-
ulus for larger ships.

(6) Life of ship. Corrosion allowance is an important and hidden factor.
Classification societies demand extensive renewals when survey shows
the plating thicknesses and modulus of section to be appreciably reduced.
It could well be economical to accept low initial stresses to postpone
the likely time of renewal. Comparison with type ship ought to be made
before corrosion allowance is added and the latter assessed by exam-
ining the performance of modern paints and anti-corrosive systems (see
Chapter 14).

(c) Conditions of service. Classification societies permit a reduced modulus of
section for service in the Great Lakes or in coastal waters. Warship author-
ities must consider the likelihood of action damage by future weapons and
the allowance to be made in consequence. Warships are not, of course,
restricted to an owner’s route.

(d) Local structural design. An improvement in the buckling behaviour or
design at discontinuities may enable higher overall stress to be accepted.

(e) Material. Modern high grade steels permit higher working stresses and the
classification societies encourage their use, subject to certain provisos.

(f) Progress. A designer is never satisfied; a structural design which is entirely
successful suggests that it was not entirely efficient in the use of materials
and he is tempted to permit higher stresses next time. Such progress must
necessarily be cautiously slow.

A fuller discussion of the nature of failure and the aim of the designer of the
future occurs later in the chapter. Approximate values of total stress which
have been found satisfactory in the past are given below:

Ships Wave Design stresses

Deck Keel

N /mm? N /mm?
100m frigate L/20 110 90
150m destroyer L/20 125 110
200m general cargo vessel 0.607/L 110 90
250m aircraft carrier L/20 140 125

300m oil tanker 0.607/L 140 125

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 214 ---
The ship girder 193

SHEAR STRESSES

The shearing force at any position of the ship’s length is that force which tends
to move one part of the ship vertically relative to the adjacent portion. It tends
to distort square areas of the sides into rhomboids. The force is distributed over
the section, each piece of material contributing to the total. It is convenient to
consider shear stress, the force divided by the area and this is divided over the
cross-section of a simple beam according to the expression
SAV
~ Ib

Ay is the moment about the NA of that part of the cross-section above
section PP where the shear stress 7 is required. / is the second moment of area of
the whole cross-section and 6 is the total width of material at section P (Fig.
6.15). The distribution of shear stress over a typical cross-section of a ship is
shown in Fig. 6.14. The maximum shear stress occurs at the neutral axis at
those points along the length where the shearing force is a maximum. A more
accurate distribution would be given by shear flow theory applied to a hollow
box girder, discussed presently.

us ls Is t4 La ls

Shear stress

Fig. 6.14 Shear loading on a ship girder

Acceptable values of shear stress depend on the particular type of side
construction. Failure under the action of shear stress would normally comprise
wrinkling of panels of plating diagonally. The stress at which this occurs
depends on the panel dimensions, so while the shear stress arising from the
standard longitudinal strength calculation clearly affects side plating thickness

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 215 ---
194 Basic ship theory

SSPE

Fig. 6.15

and stiffener spacings, it does not have a profound effect on the structural cross-
section of the ship.

Already, there is a tendency to assume that the stresses obtained from the
standard comparative calculation actually occur in practice, so that the design
of local structure may be effected using these stresses. Because local structure
affected by the ship girder stresses cannot otherwise be designed, there is no
choice. Strictly, this makes the local structure comparative. In fact, the stresses
obtained by the comparative calculation for a given wave profile have been
shown by full scale measurements to err on the safe side so that their use
involves a small safety factor. Often, other local loading is more critical. This
is discussed more fully under ‘Criterion of failure.’

Longitudinal

Longitudinal

Fig. 6.16

INFLUENCE LINES

The ship will not often, even approximately, be in the condition assumed for the
standard calculation. It is important for designers and operators to know at a
glance, the effect of the addition or removal of weight on the longitudinal
strength. Having completed the standard calculation, the effects of small add-
itions of weight are plotted as influence lines in much the same way as for
bridges and buildings (see Fig. 6.17).

An influence line shows the effect on the maximum bending moment of the
addition of a unit weight at any position along the length. The height of the line

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 216 ---
The ship girder 195

Fig. 6.17

at P represents the effect on the maximum bending moment at X of the addition
of a unit weight at P. Two influence lines are normally drawn, one for the
hogging and one for the sagging condition. Influence lines could, of course, be
drawn to show the effect of additions on sections other than that of the
maximum BM but are not generally of much interest.

Consider the addition of a weight P, x aft of amidships, to a ship for which
the hogging calculation has been performed as shown in Fig. 6.18. It will cause
a parallel sinkage s and a change of trim ¢ over the total length L. If A and / are
the area and least longitudinal second moment of area of the curved waterplane
and the ship is in salt water of reciprocal weight density u, then, approximately,

P P(x —f)uL
sinkage s = — and trim f= Pe Duk

Area= A,
first moment

oz = Mo Zz
second moment
about oz = I, |

Fig. 6.18

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 217 ---
196 Basic ship theory

The increase in bending moment at OZ is due to the moment of added weight
less the moment of buoyancy of the wedges aft of OZ less the moment of
buoyancy of the parallel sinkage aft of OZ.

sM, PM,

Moment of buoyancy of parallel sinkage about OZ = A
u

Moment of buoyancy of wedges

1 x, —-fFoe
== fom MSH 9 gy,
u L

It Ma(f—e)t
uL uL

Pf)
T

Moment of weight which is included only if the weight is aft of OZ and
therefore only if positive

{Ia M.(f —e)}

= P[x —e], positive values only.

Increase in BM for the addition of a unit weight,
6M (x-f) Ms ;
Pp —T athnd

Note that this expression is suitable for negative values of x (i.e. for P
forward of amidships), provided that the expression in square brackets, [ ], is
discarded if negative. A discontinuity occurs at OZ, the ordinate of maximum
bending moment. The influence lines are straight lines which cut the axis at
points about 0.2-0.25 of the length from amidships. It is within this length,
therefore, that weights should be removed to aggravate the hogging condition
and outside this length that they should be removed to aggravate the sagging
condition.

Certain simplifying assumptions are sometimes made to produce a simpler
form of this equation. There is little point in doing this because no less work
results. However, if (f — e) is assumed negligible, n put equal to /,/J and F put
equal to M,/A

6M
po
This gives the results shown in Fig. 6.19.

A note of caution is necessary in the use of influence lines. They are intended
for small weight changes and are quite unsuitable for large changes such as might
occur with cargo, for example. In general, weight changes large enough to make
a substantial change in stress are too large for the accuracy of influence lines.

—{h- Milf — e)}

—n(x —f) — F + [x-e]

CHANGES TO SECTION MODULUS

Being a trial and error process, the standard calculation will rarely yield a
suitable solution first time. It will almost always be necessary to return to the
structural section of the ship to add or subtract material in order to adjust the
resulting stress. The effect of such an addition, on the modulus //y, is by no

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 218 ---
The ship girder 197

$(I-n)-(F +e) +nf

—(F +ne)+nf

Fig. 6.19

means obvious. Moreover, it is not obvious in the early stages, whether the
superstructure should be included in the strength section or whether the con-
struction should be such as to discourage a contribution from the superstruc-
ture. Some measure of the effect of adding material to the strength section is
needed if we are to avoid calculating a new modulus for each trial addition.

In order to provide such a measure, consider (Fig. 6.20) the addition of an
area a at a height z above the neutral axis of a structural section whose second
moment of area has been calculated to be Ak’, area A, radius of gyration k and
levers y; to the keel and y2 to the deck. Now

stress 0 =

T/y

Fig. 6.20

By considering changes to / and y it can be shown that for a given bending
moment, M, stress o will obviously be reduced at the deck and will be reduced
at the keel if z > &?/y,, when material is added within the section, z < yo.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 219 ---
198 Basic ship theory

Fig. 6.21

If the material is added above the deck, z > y) then the maximum stress
occurs in the new material and there will be a reduction in stress above the
neutral axis (Fig. 6.21) if

A(z/y2 = 1)
(22 /k? + 1)

The position is not quite so simple if the added material is a superstructure.
See later section on superstructures.

a>

EXAMPLE 2. In converting a steel survey ship, it is proposed to extend the short
forecastle for the whole length of the ship and to arrange the structure so that it
contributes 100 per cent to the hull girder. The new structure is wholly of light
alloy. Estimate the new nominal stresses due to the change in section modulus,
assuming that the bending moment remains unchanged.

Before conversion: BM = 7742tonnef/m, J = 23,970cm* m?, A = 4520cm?,
y, deck = 2.9m; y, keel = 3.05m

Added structure: side plating 2.3m x 10mm stiffened by one 26cm? girder at
mid-height; deck plating 11 m x 10mm stiffened by five 26cm? girders with
centre of area 8cm below the deck.

E, light alloy: 69 GPa
E, steel: 207 GPa

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 220 ---
The ship girder 199

Solution:
Above upper deck

Item A h Ah Al? ad Ak?
(cm?) (m)  (cem*m) (cm?m?) (m2) (cm? m?)

two sides 460 1.15 529 608 0.44 202

two side girders 52 1.15 60 69 0 0

deck 1100 2.30 2530 5819 0 0

five deck girders 130 2.22 289 642 0 0
1742 1.96 3408 7138 202

Fig. 6.22
New effective area = 4520 + 4(1742) = 5,100.cm?*

1 (1742) (2.9 + 1.96)

3 5100 = 0.553m

Movement of neutral axis =

T about old NA = 23,970 + {7138 + 202 — 1742 (1.96)?
+ 1742(1.96 + 2.9)°}
= 37,900 cm? m?
T about new NA = 37,900 — 5,100 (0.553)> = 36,340 cm? m?
y, new deck = 5.2 — 0.553 = 4.65m
y, keel = 3.05 + 0.553 = 3.60m

7742
23,970
7742
23,970

Old stresses were, o, keel =

x 3.05 = 0.99 tonnef /cm? (steel)

a, deck = x 2.9 = 0.94 tonnef /cm? (steel)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 221 ---
200 Basic ship theory

7742 5
New stresses are, 7, keel = 36.340 x 3.60 = 0.77 tonnef /cm* (steel)
1 7742 2
=; 65 = 0.33 2
a, deck 3% 36.340 x 4.65 = 0.33 tonnef/cm* (alloy)
7742

o, deck = x 2.35 = 0.50 tonnef /em? (steel)

36,340

SLOPES AND DEFLECTIONS

The bending moment on the ship girder has been found by integrating first the
loading p’ with respect to length to give shearing force S, and then by integrat-
ing the shearing force S with respect to length to give M. There is a further
relationship with which students will already be familiar.

Py

M = EI
dx2

dy 1M, — fay,
eral a and y= [Ras

Thus, the slope at all points along the hull can be found by integrating the M/EI
curve and the bent shape of the hull profile can be found by integrating the
slope curve. It is not surprising that the errors involved in integrating approxi-
mate data four times can be quite large. Moreover, the calculation of the
second moment of area of all sections throughout the length is laborious and
the standard calculation is extended this far only rarely—it might be thus
extended, for example, to give a first estimate of the distortion of the hull
between a master datum level and a radar aerial some distance away. It may
also be done to obtain a deflected profile in vibration studies.

or

HORIZONTAL FLEXURE

Flexure perpendicular to the plane with which we are normally concerned may
be caused by vibration, flutter, uneven lateral forces or bending while rolling.
Vibrational modes are discussed in Chapter 9. Unsymmetrical bending can be
resolved into bending about the two principal axes of the cross-section. The
only point in the ship at which the maxima of the two effects combine is the
deck edge and if the ship were to be balanced on a standard wave which gave a
bending moment M, the stress at the deck edge would be
Mz My

6+——sin@
Ty cos 6 + L. sin

o=

However, it is not quite so easy as this; if the ship were heading directly into a
wave train, it would not be rolling. Only in quartering or bow seas will bending
and rolling be combined and, in such a case, the maximum bending moments in
the two planes would not be in phase, so that the deck edge effect will be less
than that obtained by superposition of the two maxima. Some limited research

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 222 ---
The ship girder 201

Fig. 6.23

into this problem indicates that horizontal bending moment maxima are likely
to be of the order of 40 per cent of the vertical bending moment maxima and
the ratio of the stresses is likely to be about 35 per cent in common ship shapes.
The increase in deck edge stress over that obtained with head seas is thought to
be of the order of 20-25 per cent. This is an excellent reason to avoid stress
concentrations in this area.

BEHAVIOUR OF A HOLLOW BOX GIRDER

The simple theory of bending of beams assumes that plane sections of the beam
remain plane and that the direct stress is directly proportional to the distance
from the neutral axis. A deck parallel to the neutral axis would therefore be
expected to exhibit constant stress across its width. In fact, the upper flange of a
hollow box girder like a ship’s hull can receive its load only by shear at the deck
edge. The diffusion of this shear into a plane deck to create the direct stresses is
a difficult problem mathematically; the diffusion from the edge elements across
the deck is such that the plane sections do not remain plane, and the math-
ematics shows that the direct stresses reduce towards the middle of the deck.
This has been borne out by observations in practice. The effect is known as
shear lag and its magnitude depends on the type of loading and dimensions
of the ship; it is more pronounced, for example, under concentrated loads.

—=

a 7
—————
Las : :

Fig. 6.24 Direct stresses in practice

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 223 ---
202 Basic ship theory

In common ship shapes, it accounts for a difference in stress level at mid-deck
of only a few per cent. It is more important in the consideration of the effects of
superstructures and of the effective breadth of plating in local strength prob-
lems which will be discussed later.

WAVE PRESSURE CORRECTION

This is usually known as the Smith Correction. In calculating the buoyancy per
unit length at a section of the ship, the area of the section given by the Bonjean
curve cut by the wave surface was taken. This assumes that the pressure at
a point P on the section is proportional to the depth / of the point below the
wave surface and the buoyancy = w fhdB = w x area immersed (Fig. 6.25).

Upthrust- Pressure
=pB8=hw3B | \p= hw

le.

Fig. 6.25

It is shown in Chapter 9, that this simple hydrostatic law is not true in a wave
because the wave is caused by the orbital motion of water particles. It can be
shown that the pressure at a point P in a wave at a depth / below the wave
surface is the same as the hydrostatic pressure at a depth /’, where /’ is the
distance between the mean (or still water) axis of the surface trochoid and the

Fig. 6.26

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 224 ---
The ship girder 203

subsurface trochoid through P (Fig. 6.26). Thus, the buoyancy at a section of
a ship is
w / h' dB = w x (effective area immersed).

Setting up 4’ from the sub-surface trochoid through P and similar heights from
a series of sub-surface trochoids drawn on the wave profile, the effective
immersed area up to W'L is obtained. New Bonjean curves can thus be plotted
(Fig. 6.27). The formula for /’ is

2 yy
q _ 10 _2
h' =H aA exp( 2) }

An approximation to the Smith correction is:

corrected wave BM = wave BM x exp(—“2)

Pressure
corrected
bonjeans

Fig. 6.27

where T is the draught, L the length and 7 a constant given by:

Block coeff. 1, sagging 1, hogging

Cg
0.80 5.5 6.0
0.60 5.0 5.3

LONGITUDINAL STRENGTH STANDARDS BY RULE

Until 1960 the Classification Societies prescribed the structure of merchant
ships through tables of dimensions. They then changed to the definition of
applied load and structural resistance by formulae. In the 1990s the major
Classification Societies under the auspices of the International Association of
Classification Societies (IACS) agreed a common minimum standard for the
longitudinal strength of ships supported by the statistics of structural failure.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 225 ---
204 Basic ship theory

There is today widespread acceptance of the principle that there is a very
remote probability that load will exceed strength during the whole lifetime of
a ship. This probability may be as low as 10~® at which level the IACS
requirement is slightly more conservative than almost every Classification
Society standard.

Loading on a merchant ship is separated into two parts:

(a) the bending moment and shear force due to the weight of the ship and the
buoyancy in still water,
(5) the additional effects induced by waves.

4N
(dt
ar a A MAD A Z
gosh iers ‘a ZK X NK

A
Fig. 6.28 Wave induced bending forces

Still water loading is calculated by the simple methods described at the
beginning of this chapter without, of course, the wave which is replaced by the
straight waterline of interest. Several such waterlines will usually be of concern.
Stresses caused by such loading may be as much as 40 per cent of the total
stresses allowed and incorrect acceptance of cargo or unloading of cargo has
caused spectacular failures of the ship girder. With such ships as bulk carriers
in particular, Masters must follow the sequences of loading and unloading
recommended by their Classification Societies with scrupulous care. Not only
may the ship break its back by bending but failure could be caused by the high
shear forces that occur between full and empty holds. Indeed, a simple desktop
computer to assess changes as they are contemplated has become common
since high capacity cargo handling has evolved.

Wave induced bending moment (WIBM) is now accepted to be represented
by the formulae:

Hogging WIBM = 0.19 MCL’>BC, kNm
Sagging WIBM = —0.11 MCL’B(C, + 0.7)kNm
where L and B are in metres and C, > 0.6

300 — L
100

= 10.75 for 300 < L < 350m

L—350\'°
= . — | ————_ <
10.75 ( 10 ) for 350 << L

15
and C = 10.75 — ( ) for 90 < L < 300m

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 226 ---
The ship girder 205

M is a distribution factor along the length of the ship.

M = 1.0 between 0.4L and 0.65 from the stern
= 2.5x/L at x metres from the stern up to 0.4L
x —0.65L

—asr tt x metres from the stern between 0.65Z and L.

=10-
Wave induced shear force is given by IACS as

Hogging condition S = 0.3 F; CLB(C, + 0.7) kN
Sagging condition S = —0.3 FyxCLB(Cy + 0.7) kN

where L, B and Cy are as given above and F; and F» by Fig. 6.29.

IN
1.0
0.92 x 190C,,
ee SSE
1106, + 0.7)
F,
07
Vv
0
” Fore End L
07
F,
1c, \
1 ;
092 T10(G, + 0.7)
Vv 10

Fig. 6.29 Factors F\ and Fy

The modulus of cross section amidships must be such that bending stress
caused by combining still water and wave induced BM is less than 175 N/mm’.
There is the further proviso that, despite the waters in which the vessel may sail,
this midship section modulus shall not be less than:

CL? B(Cy + 0.7) em?

which represents a stress of 110 N/mm?.
The maximum permissible total shear stress, wave induced plus still water is
also 110N/mm?.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 227 ---
206 Basic ship theory

The formulae given above embrace most common ship types. Special con-
sideration must be given to vessels with large deck openings, large flare, heated
cargoes or which fall outside limits when:

L>500m L/B<5
Cy < 0.60 B/D > 2.5

Classification Societies now rely upon computer programs based on the
methods presently to be described in this chapter. Fundamental to this is the rep-
resentation of the wave loading by wave spectra and by strip theory. Strip theory
is linear and, in essence, assumes the vessel to be wallsided. Thus, wave induced
oading would be the same in both hogging and sagging conditions which is
known in practice not to be so. Sagging stresses are greater by about 10 per cent
than hogging stresses due in part to the support at the end of the ship provided
by flare. This accounts for the different coefficients given in the formulae above,
providing some degree of non-linearity in the treatment.

This gratifying conformity among Classification Societies is, of course,
reviewed periodically. It may be reviewed if statistics show that standards have
become inadequate or if oceanographers demonstrate that world wave patterns
are changing with climate. Variations remain among the Classification Societies
in the more detailed aspects of structural design and in allowances made for
high quality steels. Variations also occur in the stresses permitted among
different ship types and with restricted service conditions.

FULL SCALE TRIALS

Full scale trials can be carried out for a variety of purposes.

(a) To load a hull, possibly to destruction, noting the (ultimate) load and the
failure mechanisms.

(5) To measure the strains in a ship at sea, over a short period, in a seaway
which is itself measured.

(c) To measure strains in ships at sea over a prolonged period of service with
the crew noting any signs of failure. This is the only trial which is likely to
throw light on fatigue failure.

There have been several attempts to measure the behaviour of the ship girder by
loading ships and recording their behaviour at various positions by strain
gauges and measurements of deflection. Neverita and Newcombia, Clan Alpine
and Ocean Vulcan were subject to variations in loading by filling different tanks
while they were afloat. Wolf, Preston, Bruce and Albuera were supported at the
middle or the ends in dry dock and weight added until major structural failure
occurred.

Short duration sea trials pose difficulty in finding rough weather and in
measuring the wave system accurately. In one successful trial two frigates of
significantly different design were operated in close company in waves with

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 228 ---
The ship girder 207

significant heights up to 8 metres. Electrical resistance gauges were used to
record stress variations with time and the seas measured using wave buoys. Of
particular interest was the slamming which excites the hull girder whipping
modes. It was found that the slam transient increased the sagging bending
moment much more than the hogging. In frigates whipping oscillations are
damped out quite quickly but they can persist longer in some vessels.

Long term trials are of great value. They provide data that can be used in the
more representative calculations discussed later. For many years now a number
of RN frigates have been fitted with automatic mechanical or electrical strain
gauges recording the maximum compressive and tensile deck stresses in each
four hour period. Ship’s position, speed and sea conditions are taken from the
log. Maximum bending stresses have exceeded the L/20 standard values by a
factor of almost two in some cases. This is not significant while the standard
calculation is treated as purely comparative. It does show the difficulties of
trying to extrapolate from past experience to designs using other constructional
materials (e.g. reinforced plastic or concrete) or with a distinctly different
operating pattern.

THE NATURE OF FAILURE

Stress has never caused any material to fail. Stress is simply a convenient
measure of the material behaviour which may ‘fail’ in many different ways.
‘Failure’ of a structure might mean permanent strain, cracking, unacceptable
deflection, instability, a short life or even a resonant vibration. Some of these
criteria are conveniently measured in terms of stress. In defining an acceptable
level of stress for a ship, what ‘failure’ do we have in mind?

Structural failure of the ship girder may be due to one or a combination of (a)
Cracking, (b) Fatigue failure, (c) Instability.

It is a fact that acceptable stress levels are at present determined entirely
by experience of previous ships in which there have been a large number
of cracks in service. The fact that these might have been due to poor local
design is at present largely disregarded, suggesting that some poor local design
or workmanship somewhere in the important parts of the hull girder is
inevitable.

However good the design of local structure and details might be, there is one
important influence on the determination of acceptable levels of stress. The
material built into the ship will have been rolled and, finally, welded. These
processes necessarily distort the material so that high stresses are already built
in to the structure before the cargo or sea impose any loads at all. Very little is
known about these built-in stresses. Some may yield out, i.e. local, perhaps
molecular, straining may take place which relieves the area at the expense of
other areas. The built-in stress clearly affects fatigue life to an unknown degree.
It may also cause premature buckling. Thus, with many unknowns still remain-
ing, changes to the present practice of a stress level determined by a prolifer-
ation of cracks in previous ships, must be slow and cautious. Let us now examine
this progress.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 229 ---
208 Basic ship theory

REALISTIC ASSESSMENT OF LONGITUDINAL STRENGTH

Study of the simple standard longitudinal strength calculations so far described
has been necessary for several good reasons. First, it has conveyed an initial
look at the problem and the many assumptions which have had to be made to
derive a solution which was within the capabilities of the tools available to
naval architects for almost a hundred years. Moreover, the standard has been
adequate on the whole for the production of safe ship designs, provided that it
was coupled with conventions and experience with similar structure which was
known to have been safe. As a comparative calculation it has had a long record
of success. Second, it remains a successful method for those without ready
access to modern tools or, for those who do enjoy such access, it remains an
extremely useful starting point for a process which like any design activity is
iterative. That is to say, the structural arrangement is guessed, analysed, tested
against standards of adequacy, refined, reanalysed and so on until it is found to
be adequate. Analysis by the standard calculation is a useful start to a process
which might be prolonged. Third, much of the argument which has been
considered up to now remains valid for the new concepts which must now be
presented.

Of course, the standard calculation can be performed more readily now with
the help of computers. The computer, however, has permitted application of
mathematics and concepts of behaviour which have not been possible to apply
before. It has permitted an entirely new set of standards to replace the static
wave balance and to eradicate many of the dubious assumptions on which it
was based. Indeed, it is no longer necessary even to assume that the ship is
statically balanced. The basis of the new methods is one of realism; of a moving
ship in a seaway which is continuously changing.

During a day at sea, a ship will suffer as many as 10,000 reversals of strain
and the waves causing them will be of all shapes and sizes. At any moment, the
ship will be subject not to a single L/20 wave but a composite of many different
waves. Their distribution by size can be represented by a histogram of the
numbers occurring within each range of wave lengths. In other words, the
waves can be represented statistically. Now the statistical distribution of waves
is unlikely to remain constant for more than an hour or two by which time
wind, weather and sea state will modify the statistics. Over the life of a ship such
sea state changes will have evened out in some way and there will be a lifetime
statistical description of the sea which will be rather different from the short-
term expectation.

This provides the clue to the new approaches to longitudinal strength. What
is now sought as a measure is the likelihood that particular bending moments
that the sea can impose upon the ship will be exceeded. This is called the
probability of exceedence and it will be different if it is assessed over one hour,
four hours, one day or 25 years. What the new standard does is to ensure that
there is a comfortably small probability of exceedence of that bending moment
which would cause the ship to fail during its lifetime. With some 30 million or
so strain reversals during a lifetime, the probability of exceedence of the ship’s


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 230 ---
The ship girder 209

strength needs to be very small indeed. If the frequency distribution of applied
bending moment is that given in Fig. 6.30 and the ship’s strength is S, then the
probability of failure is

p(failure) = [ soxyonm

At this stage we have some difficulty in proceeding. While it is absolutely
necessary for the student to be aware of these revised methods, much of the
mathematics is well beyond the scope of this book, although the concept is not.
As a first step, the student is advised to break off from study of this chapter and
proceed to consider Chapter 7 on the behaviour of elements of the structure
and Chapter 9 for an introduction to the statistics of waves. Chapter 12 will
provide greater detail in due course. We can then presume upon such under-
standing and ask only that the reader take on trust a general description of
some of the other mathematics which will probably not yet be familiar. Thus
armed we may consider longitudinal strength in terms somewhat more realistic
than the single overwhelming trochoidal wave:

(BM) Load

BM
Fig. 6.30

(a) loading imposed upon the ship;
(5) response of the longitudinal structure;
(c) assessment of structural safety.

REALISTIC ASSESSMENT OF LOADING LONGITUDINALLY

It is necessary first to return to the effect of a single wave, not a trochoid which
is too inconvenient mathematically but to a sinewave of a stated height and
length or frequency. We need to examine the effect of this wave, not upon a
rock-like ship presumed to be static, but upon a ship which will move, in
particular to heave and to pitch. Movement g(t) of any system with one degree

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 231 ---
210 Basic ship theory

of freedom subject to an excitation Q(t) is governed by the differential
equation.

G(t) + 2k woG(t) + wog = O(1)

where k is the damping factor and wy is the natural frequency. If now the input
to the system Q(t) is sinusoidal = x cos wt, the solution to the equation, or the
output, is

q(t) = HQ(t— «)
where ¢ is a phase angle and H is called the response amplitude operator
(RAO)
1
{(wp — wr)? + 4kws, 1p

__ amplitude of output

amplitude of input

RAO

Both H and « are functions of the damping factor k and the tuning factor w/wo.

This form of solution is a fairly general one and applies when the input is
expressed in terms of wave height and the output is the bending moment
amidships. The multiplier H is of course more complex but depends upon
damping, wave frequency and ship shape, heave position and pitch angle. It
is called the bending moment response amplitude operator and may be calcu-
lated for a range of wave frequencies (Fig. 6.31).

The calculation of the RAOs—and indeed the heave and pitch of the ship
subject to a particular wave—is performed by standard computer programs
using some applied mathematics which is known generally as strip theory.

Response
Amplitude

Fig. 6.31

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 232 ---
The ship girder 211

One aspect of theoretical hydrodynamics is the study of the shape of the
streamlines of a perfect fluid flowing in some constrained manner. The mathe-
matics may hypothesize a source or a sink of energy in the fluid represented by
a potential, like the broadcast of radio waves from a transmitter. A mathemat-
ical function may represent the size of the potential and streamlines, velocities
of flow and pressures may be calculated, showing the effects of such sources and
sinks upon the remaining fluid. This is part of potential flow theory.

An array of sources and sinks can be devised to represent the flow past
a prismatic body even when there is an air/water interface. Flow past the body,
the forces on the body, the consequent movement of the body and the elevation
or depression of the interface can all be calculated. A ship can be represented by
a series of short prismatic bodies or strips, all joined together and the total
forces and bending moments upon such a hull calculated, the different eleva-
tions representing the self-generated waves. Waves imposed upon the ship may
also be represented in the same way. The potential functions needed for this
representation are pulsating ones and interference occurs between waves
created and imposed. These are affected by the beam of the ship relative to the
wave length of the self-generated waves and this has resulted in several different
approaches to strip theory using slightly different but important assumptions.
There are other important assumptions concerned with the boundaries. The
general term strip theory embraces all such studies, including slender body
theory and systematic perturbation analysis.

The mathematics is based upon several assumptions, the most important of
which has been that the relationship of bending moment and wave height is
linear, i.e. bending moment proportional to waveheight. Another effect of the
assumptions is that the mathematics makes the ship wallsided. Despite these
obviously incorrect assumptions, the results from strip theory are remarkably
accurate and with steady refinements to the theory will improve further.

It is now necessary to combine the effect of all of those waves which
constitute the sea as oceanographers have statistically described. For a short
time ahead they have found that each maximum hog or sag bending moment
can be well represented by a Rayleigh distribution

BMnax BM,
BM...) = — BMiax

where mp is the total energy in the ship response which is the mean square of the
response

mo = [ | RAO? S(w, 0) dO dw
0 —7

S being the total energy of the waves in the direction 9. The probability that
BMmax Will exceed a value B in any one cycle is given by

2.
P(BMmax > B) = exo(- 3)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 233 ---
212 Basic ship theory

|---— Most probable extreme
BM in}x10"cycles

Bending
Moment
(kN.m)

100000 +

Cumulative Probability

Fig. 6.32 Cumulative probability
or the probability of exceedence in n cycles

P(BMmax > By) = 1 — {1 — exp(—B?/2m0)}"

This illustrates the general approach to the problem. It has been necessary to

define S(w, @), the spectrum of wave energy which the ship may

meet in the suc-

ceeding hour or two. Over the entire life of the ship, it may be expected to meet
every possible combination of wave height and frequency coming from every
direction. Such long-term statistics are described by a two-parameter spectrum

agreed by the ISSC which varies slightly for different regions o

the world. The

procedure for determining the probability of exceedence is a little more complic-
ated than described above but the presentation of the results is similar.
Figure 6.32 shows such a result. At any given probability of exceedence the

short time ahead is predicted by a Rayleigh or a Gaussian distri
the mean value of the sea characteristics pertaining.

bution based on

Other approaches to the problem are possible. Some authorities, for example,
use as a standard the likelihood that a particular bending moment will be
exceeded during any period of one hour (or four hours) during the life of the
ship. This has the advantage of being conveniently compared with measure-
ment of statistical strain gauges installed in ships which record the maximum

experienced every hour (or four hours).


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 234 ---
The ship girder 213

Stress
(MN/m?)

0:01 040 030 050 070 090 095 099 0-999 0-995 0-999 0-99995

Fig. 6.33 Probability of non-exceedence in a 4-hour period

Figure 6.33 is such a plot on a log logscale which shows linear results that can
be easily extrapolated.

We may now capitalize upon the study we made of the simple trochoidal
wave. The effective wave height H, is defined as that trochoidal wave of ship
length which by the static standard wave calculation (without the Smith correc-
tion) gives the same wave bending moment as the worst that the ship would
experience during its lifetime. That which appears to fit frigates very well is

H, = 2.2 L°? metres

Figure 6.34 shows various effective wave height formulae compared with
frigates at probability of once in a lifetime of 3 x 10’ reversals and with
merchant ships at 10°.

Comparisons can show that the L/20 wave gives 50-70 per cent of the remote
expectation for frigates while 0.607,/L runs through the 108 spots, overestimat-
ing the load for very large ships. As a first estimate of required longitudinal
strength therefore a designer may safely use the static standard strength calcu-
lation associated with a wave height of L/9 up to 50m, 2.2 L°> around 100m
and 0.607,/L m up to about 300m.

Let us leave the problems of determining the load for the time being and take
a look at the ability of a ship to withstand longitudinal bending.

REALISTIC STRUCTURAL RESPONSE

The totally elastic response of the ship treated as if it were a simple beam has
already been considered. Small variations to simple beam theory to account for

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 235 ---
214 Basic ship theory

0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
Ship length m

Fig. 6.34

shear lag were also touched upon. There are some other reasons why a hollow
box girder like a ship may not behave like a simple beam. Strain locked in
during manufacture, local yielding and local buckling will cause redistribution
of the load-bearing capability of each part and its contribution to the overall
cross section. If extreme loads are to be just contained, it is necessary to know
the ultimate load-bearing ability of the cross section.

Let us first go to one extreme, and it is again necessary to draw upon some
results of Chapter 7. It is there explained that the ultimate resistance to bending
of a beam after the load has been increased to the point when the beam
becomes totally plastic is

My = oy S

where S* is the sum of the first moments of area of cross section each side of the
neutral axis. This surely is the ultimate strength of a perfect beam which is
turned into a plastic hinge. Common sense tells us that such a state of affairs is
most unlikely in the large hollow box girder which is the ship. While the tension
side might conceivably become totally plastic, the compression side is likely to
buckle long before that. This is taken into account in the concept of the
ultimate longitudinal resistance to load which forms the basis on which

*This is a different S from that in the previous section.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 236 ---
The ship girder 215

fc,

Fig. 6.35

ultimate strength is now assessed. The essence of the method is to build up the
otal resistance to bending from a summation of the contribution of each
element. It is not difficult to imagine that as compressive load in a deck is
increased there comes a time when the panels will buckle, shirk their load and
hrow an increased burden upon their adjacent longitudinal stiffeners. These in
urn may buckle as the load is further increased, shirk their contribution and
hrow an extra burden on ‘hard’ areas like corners of decks and junctions with
ongitudinal bulkheads.

This is how a realistic assessment of cross sectional resistance should be
made, a method which is now in general use. Every element which constitutes
he effective cross section is first examined and a stress-strain curve is plotted.
When the buckling behaviour of the element is embraced, the curves are called
oad shortening curves and are usually plotted in non-dimensional form as a
amily of curves with a range of initial assumed imperfections (Fig. 6.35).

The cross section of the ship girder is then assumed to bend with plane
sections remaining plane to take up a radius of curvature R, the cross section
rotating through an angle 6 (Fig. 6.36). At any distance 4 above the neutral axis
an element n of area A, will be strained by an amount ¢,,. Its load-bearing capa-
city can be picked off the relevant load shortening curve, say, at Q (Fig. 6.35). All
such elements, so calculated, will lead to a bending resistance of the cross section

M = onAnhn
7


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 237 ---
216 Basic ship theory

Fig. 6.36

Fig. 6.37

Carried out for a range of values of 6 or R, a load shortening curve for the
whole cross section can be calculated to provide a good indication of the
collapse bending moment (Fig. 6.37). With the heavy structure of the bottom
in compression when the ship hogs, the ultimate BM approaches the plastic
moment M, but a ratio of 0.6 in the sagging condition is not unusual.

In the calculation of M, the neutral axis does not stay still except when the
behaviour is wholly elastic so that the additional condition for equilibrium of
cross section must be imposed

Ln Fin = 0

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 238 ---
The ship girder 217

For this reason, it is convenient to consider changes to @ in increments which
are successively summed and the process is called incremental analysis. Load
shortening curves for the elements may embrace any of the various forms of
buckling and indeed plastic behaviour whether it be assisted by locked-in
manufacturing stresses or not.

While there are some obvious approximations to this method and some
simplifications, it is undoubtedly the most realistic assessment of the collapse
strength of the ship girder yet. The near horizontal part of Fig. 6.37 clearly
represents the failure load, or collapse strength or ultimate strength, whatever it
may be called.

ASSESSMENT OF STRUCTURAL SAFETY

At its simplest, failure will occur when the applied load exceeds the collapse
load. It is first necessary to decide what probability of failure is acceptable,
morally, socially or economically. History has shown that a comfortable level is
a probability of 0.01 or 1 per cent that a single wave encounter will load the ship
beyond its strength. With 30 million such encounters during a lifetime—every
10 seconds or so for 25 years—this represents a probability of 0.33 x 10~°.
Some argue that this is altogether too remote and the ship could be weaker. In
fact, noting the logarithmic scale, there is not a great deal of difference in the
applied load at these very remote occurrences (Fig. 6.32). Because the statistical
method is still essentially comparative, all that is necessary is to decide upon
one standard and use it to compare new designs with known successful practice
or, rarely, failure. This is what all major authorities now do. It is worth taking
a glimpse at further developments.

From the previous section, we have been able to declare a single value of the
strength S which the loading must exceed for failure to occur. S may also be
assumed to vary statistically because it may itself possess a variability. The
strength, for example, will be affected by the thickness of plating rolled to
within specified tolerances because that is what happens in practice. It will be
dependent upon slightly different properties of the steel around the ship, upon
ship production variations, upon defects, upon welding procedures and initial
distortion which differs slightly. All such small variations cannot be precisely
quantified at the design stage but the range over which they are likely can be.
Instead of a single figure S for the strength, a probability density function can
be constructed. Figure 6.38 more properly shows the realistic shapes of loading
and strength. For bending moment M, the shaded area under the load curve to
the right of M represents the probability that the load will exceed M. The
shaded area under the strength curve to the left of M represents the probability
that the ship will not be strong enough to withstand M.

We are thus concerned with the shaded overlap at the bottom. If we are
studying extreme loads whose probability of occurrence is remote we have to
define with some precision the shapes of the very tiny tails of the distributions.

This direct approach to structural reliability is still in its infancy. Instead,
most authorities match the two distributions to known mathematical shapes
and allow the mathematics to take care of the tails. The most usual shapes to be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 239 ---
218 Basic ship theory

(BM)

Bending Moment

Fig. 6.38

assumed are Rayleigh or Gaussian which are defined by two properties only,
the mean and the root mean square (or variance). This leads to a relationship
between load P and strength S

S = vpvs P

where vp is the partial safety factor deduced from the mean and variance of the
applied loading distribution and vs is the partial safety factor assessed for the
mean and variance of the strength variability. A further partial safety factor is
often added, »., which assesses subjectively (i.e. as a matter of judgement) the
gravity of failure. This partial safety factor approach is not yet in widespread
use, except in building codes for civil engineering.

HYDROELASTIC ANALYSIS

The ship in a seaway is an elastic body which enjoys bodily movements in all six
directions and distorts also about and along all three axes. Its distortions affect
the load applied by the sea and both structural and hydrodynamic damping
affect the problem. The sea itself is a random process.

Until recently a reasonably complete mathematical description and solution
of this formidable problem had never been achieved. It has now been possible
to describe the dynamic behaviour of the ship in terms of modes of distortion
which also embrace such solid body movements as pitch and heave, thus
bringing together seakeeping and structural theories. Superposition of each
element of behaviour in accordance with the excitation characteristics of the
sea enables the total behaviour to be predicted, including even slamming and
twisting of the hull.

The mathematics is wildly beyond the scope of this book and much of it has
yet to be transformed into readily usable tools. Computer programs are avail-
able but require a great deal of data on mass and stiffness distribution which is
not available until very late in the design.

This powerful analytical approach has been used to examine the overall
stress distribution in large ships, showing that important problems emerge at
sections of the ship other than amidships. Combination of shear force and
bending moment cause principal stresses much higher than had been suspected
previously. Areas of particular concern are those about 20 per cent of the ship’s

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 240 ---
The ship girder 219

length from the stern or from the bow, where slamming may further exacerbate
matters. A lack of vigilance in the detail design or the production of the
structure in these areas could, it has been suggested, have been responsible
for some bulk carrier and VLCC fractures.

SLAMMING (see also Chapter 12)

One hydroelastic phenomenon which has been known for many years as slam-
ming has now succumbed to theoretical treatment. When flat areas of plating,
usually forward, are brought into violent contact with the water at a very acute
angle, there is a loud bang and the ship shudders. The momentum of the ship
receives a check and energy is imparted to the ship girder to make it vibrate.
Strain records show that vibration occurs in the first mode of flexural vibration
imposing a higher frequency variation upon the strain fluctuations due to wave
motion. Amplitudes of strain are readily augmented by at least 30 per cent and
sometimes much more, so that the phenomenon is an important one.

The designer can do a certain amount to avoid excessive slamming simply by
looking at the lines 30-40 per cent of the length from the bow and also right
aft to imagine where acute impact might occur. The seaman can also minimize
slamming by changes of speed and direction relative to the wave fronts. In
severe seas the ship must slow down.

Extreme values of bending moment acceptable by the methods described in
his chapter already embrace the augmentation due to slamming. This is
because the relationships established between full scale measurements and the
heory adopted make such allowance.

Material considerations

A nail can be broken easily by notching it at the desired fracture point and
bending it. The notch introduces a stress concentration which, if severe enough,
will lead to a bending stress greater than the ultimate and the nail breaks on
first bending. If several bends are needed failure is by fatigue, albeit, low cycle
atigue.

A stress concentration is a localized area in a structure at which the stress is
significantly higher than in the surrounding material. It can conveniently be
conceived as a disturbance or a discontinuity in the smooth flow of the lines of
stress such as a stick placed in a fast flowing stream would cause in the water
flow. There are two types of discontinuity causing stress concentrations in ships:

(a) discontinuities built into the ship unintentionally by the methods of con-
struction, e.g. rolling, welding, casting, etc.;

(5) discontinuities deliberately introduced into the structural design for reasons
of architecture, use, access, e.g. hatch openings, superstructures, door
openings, etc.

Stress concentrations cannot be totally avoided either by good design or high
standards of workmanship. Their effects, however, can be minimized by attention

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 241 ---
220 Basic ship theory

to both and it is important to recognize the effects of stress concentrations on
the ship girder. Many ships and men were lost because these effects were not
recognized in the early Liberty ships of the 1940s.

In general, stress concentrations may cause yield, brittle fracture or buckling.
There is a certain amount of theory which can guide the designer, but a general
understanding of how they arise is more important in their recognition and
treatment because it is at the detail design stage that many can be avoided or
minimized.

GEOMETRICAL DISCONTINUTIES

The classical mathematical theory of elasticity has produced certain results for
holes and notches in laminae. The stress concentration factors at A and B of
Fig. 6.39 of an elliptical hole in an infinite plate under uniform tension in the
direction of the b-axis are given by

stress,
ip = AS -1
oO
stress, 2a
i= Ba14s
oO b

Uniform stress &

ft ft tt tft

phd eo bod

Fig. 6.39

For the particular case of a circular hole, a = b and jg = 3, i.e. the stress at
the sides of a circular hole is three times the general tensile stress level in
the plate, while at top and bottom there is a compressive stress equal to the
general stress level. If a crack is thought of, ideally, as a long thin ellipse, the
equation above gives some idea of the level of stress concentration at the ends; a
crack twenty times as long as its width, for example, lying across the direction
of loading would cause a stress, at the ends, forty-one times the general stress
level and yielding or propagation of the crack is likely for very modest values
of o.

A square hole with radiused corners might be represented for this examin-
ation by two ellipses at right angles to each other and at 45 degrees to the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 242 ---
The ship girder 221

Uniform stress o

f ft f ft ft f
I

d

Po do fo ded FJ

Fig. 6.40

direction of load. For the dimensions given in Fig. 6.40 the maximum stress
concentration factor at the corners is given approximately by

Figure 6.41 shows the effect of the variation of corner radius r on length of side
b for a square hole with a side parallel to the direction of stress and for a square
hole at 45 degrees. The figure shows

(a) that there may be a penalty of up to 25 per cent in stress in failing to align a
square hole with rounded corners with the direction of stress;

(5) that there is not much advantage in giving a corner radius greater than
about one-sixth of the side;

(c) that the penalty of corner radii of less than about one-twentieth of the side,
is severe. Rim reinforcement to the hole can alleviate the situation.

These results are suitable for large hatches. With the dimensions as given in
Fig. 6.42, the maximum stress concentration factor can be found with good
accuracy from the expression,

; 2 —0.48/6 0.926 b >
Jax = 5 —9 give)! + 7348 — 0.826278 [2977 — ( ~ 0.24)

It is of importance that the maximum stress occurs always about 5-10 degrees
around the corner and the zero stress 50-70 degrees round. Butts in plating
should be made at this latter point. Figure 6.43 shows the results for a hole with
/ = B. Note that the concentration factor is referred not to the stress in the clear
plate but to the stress at the reduced section.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 243 ---
222 Basic ship theory

Max. stress concentration factor

B= width of plate
b= width of rectan
(= length of rector

tttt

corner radius
= Max.local stress
Imax* mean stress at AA

4ded

A

Fig. 6.42 Rectangular hole in finite plate

BUILT-IN STRESS CONCENTRATIONS

The violent treatment afforded a plate of mild steel during its manufacture,
prevents the formation of a totally unstrained plate. Uneven rolling or con-
traction, especially if cooling is rapid, may cause areas of strain, even before the
plate is selected for working into a ship. These are often called ‘built in’ or
‘locked up’ stresses (more accurately, strains). Furthermore, during the pro-
cesses of moulding and welding, more strains are built in by uneven cooling.
However careful the welders, there will be some, perhaps minute, holes, cracks
and slag inclusions, lack of penetration and undercutting in a weld deposit.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 244 ---
The ship girder 223

Concentration factor jmox,

° 0-2 0-4 0-6 0-8 re)
Ye

Yield stress

Distance from concentration

Fig. 6.44 Yielding out

Inspection of important parts of the structure will minimize the number of
visual defects occurring, and radiography can show up those below the surface,
but lack of homogeneity cannot be observed by normal inspection procedures,
even though the ‘built-in’ stress may exceed yield. What then happens to them
when the ship is subjected to strain?

In ductile materials, most of the concentrations ‘yield out’, i.e. the concen-
tration reaches the yield point, shirks further load and causes a re-distribution

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 245 ---
224 Basic ship theory

of stress in the surrounding material. If the concentration is a crack, it may
propagate to an area of reduced stress level and stop. If it becomes visible, a
temporary repair is often made at sea by drilling a circular hole at its end,
reducing the concentration factor. This is a common first aid treatment. There
is considerably more anxiety if the material is not so ductile as mild steel, since
it does not have so much capacity for ‘yielding out’; furthermore, a high yield
steel is often employed in places where a general high stress level is expected so
that cracks are less able to propagate to areas of reduced stress level and stop. A
further anxiety in all materials is the possibility of fatigue, since concentrations
at which there is, locally, a high stress level will be able to withstand few
reversals.

CRACK EXTENSION, BRITTLE FRACTURE

Cracks then, cannot be prevented but can be minimized. It is important that
they are observed and rectified before they cause catastrophic failure. They can
extend under the action of fatigue or due to brittle fracture. Even in heavy
storms fatigue cracks are only likely to increase in length at a rate measured in
mm/s. A brittle fracture, however, can propogate at around 500 m/s. Thus
brittle fracture is of much greater concern. The loss of Liberty ships has already
been mentioned. More recent examples have been the MV Kurdistan which
broke in two in 1979 and the MV Tyne Bridge which experienced a 4m long
crack in 1982. Some RN frigates damaged in collision in the ‘Cod War’ in the
1970s exhibited brittle fracture showing that thin plates are not necessarily
exempt from this type of failure as had been generally thought up to that time.

The critical factors in determining whether brittle fracture will occur are
stress level, length of crack and material toughness, this last being dependent
upon temperature and strain rate. The stress level includes the effects of stress
concentrations and residual stresses due to the fabrication processes. The latter
are difficult to establish but, as an illustration, in frigates a compressive stress of
about 50MPa is introduced in hull plating by welding the longitudinals,
balanced by local regions in the vicinity of the weld where tensile stresses are
at yield point.

At low temperatures fracture of structural steels and welds is by cleavage.
Once the threshold toughness for crack initiation is exceeded, the energy
required for crack extension is so low that it can be provided by the release of
stored elastic energy in the system. Unless fracture initiation is avoided struc-
tural failure is catastrophic. At higher temperatures fracture initiation is by
growth and coalescence of voids. Subsequent crack extension is sustained only
by increased load or displacement. The temperature marking the transition in
fracture mode is termed the transition temperature. This temperature is a
function of loading rate, structural thickness, notch acuity and material micro-
structure.

Ideally one would like a simple test that would show whether a steel would
behave in a ‘notch ductile’ manner at a given temperature and stress level. This
does not exist because the behaviour of the steel depends upon the geometry
and method of loading. For instance, cleavage fracture is favoured by high

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 246 ---
The ship girder 225

triaxial stresses and these are promoted by increasing plate thickness. The
choice then, is between a simple test like the Charpy test (used extensively in
quality control) or a more expensive test which attempts to create more repre-
sentative conditions (e.g. the Wells Wide Plate or Robertson Crack Arrest
tests). More recently the development of linear elastic fracture mechanics based
on stress intensity factor, K, has been followed by usable elastic-plastic
methodologies based on crack tip opening displacement. CTOD or 6, and the
J contour integral, has in principle made it possible to combine the virtues
of both types of test in one procedure.

For a through thickness crack of length 2a subject to an area of uniform
stress, 7, remote from stress concentration the elastic stress intensity factor is
given by

K = o(na)'”

The value at which fracture occurs is K, and it has been proposed that a
K, = 125MPa(m)!/? would provide a high assurance that brittle fracture initi-
ation could be avoided. A fracture parameter, Jc, can be viewed as extending K,
into the elastic—plastic regime, with results presented in terms of Ky, which has
the same units as K,. Approximate equivalents are

Ky, = [Ick]! = [26-0y E]?

It would be unwise to assume that cracks will never be initiated in a steel
structure. For example, a running crack may emerge from a weld or heat
affected zone unless the crack initiation toughness of the weld procedures meets
that of the parent plate. It is prudent, therefore, to use steels which have the
ability to arrest cracks. It is recommended that a crack arrest toughness of the
material of between 150 and 200 MPa (m)!/2 provides a level of crack arrest
performance to cover most situations of interest in ship structures.

Recommendations are:

(a) To provide a high level of assurance that brittle fracture will not initiate, a
steel with a Charpy crystallinity less than 70 per cent at 0°C be chosen.

(5) To provide a high level of crack arrest capability together with virtually
guaranteed fracture initiation avoidance, a steel with Charpy crystallinity
less than 50 per cent at 0°C be chosen.

(c) For crack arrest strakes a steel with 100 per cent fibrous Charpy fracture
appearance at 0°C be chosen.

If the ship is to operate in ice, or must be capable of withstanding shock or
collision without excessive damage, steels with higher toughness would be
appropriate.

FATIGUE

Provided ships are inspected regularly for cracking, the relatively slow rate of
fatigue crack growth means that fatigue is not a cause for major concern in
relation to ship safety. If, however, cracks go undetected their rate of growth

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 247 ---
226 Basic ship theory

will increase as they become larger and they may reach a size that triggers brittle
fracture. Also water entering, or oil leaking, through cracks can cause problems
and repair can be costly. Fatigue, then, is of concern particularly as most cracks
occurring in ship structures are likely to be fatigue related. It is also important
to remember that fatigue behaviour is not significantly affected by the yield
strength of the steel. The introduction of higher strength steels and acceptance
of higher nominal stress levels (besides the greater difficulty of welding these
steels) means that fatigue may become more prevalent. Thus it is important that
fatigue is taken into account in design as far as is possible.

Design for fatigue is not easy—some would say impossible. However, there
are certain steps a designer can, and should, take. Experience, and considerable
testing, show that incorrect design of detail is the main cause of cracking.
The situation may be summarized by saying that design for fatigue is a matter
of detail design and especially a matter of design of welded connections.
Methods used rely very heavily on experimental data. The most common to
date has been one using the concept of a nominal stress. Typically for steel the
fatigue characteristics are given by a log/log plot of stress range against number
of cycles to failure. This S—N curve as it is termed takes the form of a straight
line with life increasing with decreasing stress range until a value below which
the metal does not fatigue. As a complication there is some evidence that in a
corrosive atmosphere there is no lower limit. However, in laboratories, tests of
welded joints lead to a series of S—N lines of common slope. The various joints
are classified by number, the number being the stress range (N/mm?) at 20
million cycles based on a mean test value less two standard deviations which
corresponds to a survival probability of 97.7 per cent. As an example, a cruci-
form joint, K butt weld with fillet welded ends is in Class 71 (Fig. 6.45).

These data relate to constant amplitude loading and they are not too sensi-
tive to mean stress level. However, a ship at sea experiences a varying load
depending upon the conditions of sea and loading under which it operates. This
is usually thought of in terms of a spectrum of loading and a transfer factor
must be used to relate the stress range under spectrum loading to the data for
constant amplitude. Testing at Hamburg suggests that a transfer factor of 4 is
appropriate for the range of notch cases existing in ship structures, assuming 20
million cycles as typical of the average merchant ship life. It also recommends a
safety factor of 4/3. For a Class 71 detail this gives a permissible stress range of
71 x 4 x 3/4 = 213. This must be checked against the figures derived from the
ongitudinal strength calculation.

As is discussed in the next chapter, many structures are now analysed by
finite element methods. These are capable of analysing local detail on which
atigue strength depends but interpretation of the results is made difficult by the
influence of the mesh size used. The smaller the mesh, and the closer one
approaches a discontinuity, the higher the stress calculated. The usual ‘engineer-
ing’ solution is to use a relatively coarse mesh and compare the results with the
figures accepted in the nominal stress approach described above. The best idea
of acceptable mesh size is obtained by testing details which have been analysed
by finite element methods and comparing the data for varying mesh size.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 248 ---
The ship girder 227

600 -

Class 71
Stress range

Nimm’

<_ tow -
|

399 Ht

10° 5 108 5 107

Life cycles N

Fig. 6.45 S—N curves (based on Hamburg work)

Other methods are available but there is not space in a volume such as this to
describe them.

DISCONTINUITIES IN STRUCTURAL DESIGN

In the second category of stress concentrations, are those deliberately intro-
duced by the designer. Theory may assist where practical cases approximate to
he assumptions made, as, for example, in the case of a side light or port hole.
Here, in a large plate, stress concentration factors of about three may be
expected. At hatches too, the effects of corner radii may be judged from Figs.
6.41 and 6.43. Finite element techniques outlined in Chapter 7 have extended
he degree to which theory may be relied upon to predict the effect of large
openings and other major stress concentrations.
Often, the concentrations will be judged unacceptably high and reinforce-
ment must be fitted to reduce the values. One of the most effective ways to do
his is by fitting a rim to the hole or curved edge. A thicker insert plate may also
help, but the fitting of a doubling plate is unlikely to be effective unless means of
creating a good connection are devised.

Designers and practitioners at all levels must be constantly on the watch for
he discontinuity, the rapid change of structural pattern and other forms of
stress raiser. It is so often bad local design which starts the major failure. Above


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 249 ---
228 Basic ship theory

all, the superposition of one concentration on another must be avoided—but
the reinforcement rim where the concentration is lowest, avoid stud welds and
fittings at structural discontinuities, give adequate room between holes, grind
the profile smooth at the concentration!

SUPERSTRUCTURES AND DECKHOUSES

These can constitute severe discontinuities in the ship girder. They can con-
tribute to the longitudinal strength but are unlikely to be fully effective. Their
effectiveness can be improved by making them long, minimizing changes in
plan and profile, extending them the full width of the hull and paying careful
attention to their connections to the hull.

The only contact between the upper deck and the superstructure is along the
bottom of the superstructure sides through which the strains and forces must be
transmitted. Because the upper deck stretches, so also must the lower edge of
the superstructure sides thus causing shear forces which tend to distort the
superstructure into a shape opposite to that of the hull (Fig. 6.46). The two are
held together, however, and there must be normal forces on the superstructure
having the opposite effect. The degree of these normal forces must depend upon
the flexibility of the deck beams and main transverse bulkheads if the super-
structure is set in from the ship’s sides. The effect of the shear forces will depend
on the manner in which the shear is diffused into the superstructure, and the
shear lag effects are likely to be more appreciable there than in the main hull
girder.

—-.—_.—_ —_---

Fig. 6.46

Fig. 6.47

If the effects of shear lag are ignored, the results are suitable for the middle
portions of long superstructures. This approach embraces the effects of shear
diffusion but ignores the concentrated forces from main transverse bulkheads,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 250 ---
The ship girder 229

and it is suitable for short superstructures or for those which extend out to the
ship’s side. An efficiency of superstructure is defined as

09 -— Oo

a- 71

where oo is the upper deck stress which would occur if there were no super-
structure present, o is the upper deck stress calculated and o; is the upper deck
stress with a fully effective superstructure. Curves are supplied from which the
factors leading to the efficiency may be calculated. As might be expected, the
efficiency depends much on the ratio of superstructure length to its transverse
dimensions.

The square ends of the superstructure constitute major discontinuities, and
may be expected to cause large stress concentrations. They must not be super-
imposed on other stress concentrations and should be avoided amidships or, if
unavoidable, carefully reinforced. For this reason, expansion joints are to be
used with caution; while they relieve the superstructure of some of its stress by
reducing its efficiency, they introduce stress concentrations which may more
than restore the stress level locally. To assist the normal forces, superstructure
ends should coincide with main transverse bulkheads.

Fig. 6.48 Direct stress in a superstructure

Unwanted hull-superstructure interactions can be avoided by using low modu-
lus material in the superstructure such as reinforced plastic which offers tensile
and compressive strengths comparable to the yield strength of mild steel with
an E-value less than a tenth that of steel. In this case the superstructure will not
make any significant contribution to longitudinal strength.

Conclusions

The student may be forgiven if he began this chapter safely assured by the static
calculation (sometimes called Reed’s method) and ended it aware of some

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 251 ---
230 Basic ship theory

considerable uncertainty. As the proceedings of the International Ship Struc-
tures Congress bear witness, this is precisely the current situation. Naval
architects are rapidly adopting the statistical approach to ship girder loading
and are preparing to marry it to structural reliability when sufficient informa-
tion about strength variability is to hand. They continue to use the results of the
long process of data collection at sea to refine their standards of acceptability.

Problems

1. A landing craft of length 61 m may be assumed to have a rectangular cross-
section of beam of 8.53m. When empty, draughts are 0.46m forward and
1.07 m aft and its weight is made up of general structure weight assumed
evenly distributed throughout the length, and machinery and superstructure
weight spread evenly over the last 12.2m. A load of 101.6 tonnef can be
carried evenly distributed over the first 48.8m, but to keep the forward
draught at a maximum of 0.61 m, ballast water must be added evenly to
the after 12.2m.

Draw the load, shearing force and bending moment diagrams for the
loaded craft when in still water of specific volume 0.975 m3/tonnef. Deter-
mine the position and value of the maximum bending moment acting on the
craft.

2. State the maximum bending moment and shearing force in terms of the
weight and length of a vessel having the weight uniformly distributed and
the curve of buoyancy parabolic and quote deck and keel moduli. Where do
the maximum shearing force and bending moment occur?

3. The barge shown in the figure floats at a uniform draught of 1 m in sea water
when empty.

A heavy weight, uniformly distributed over the middle 5m of the barge,
increases the draught to 2 m. It may be assumed that the buoyancy curves for
the barge (loaded and unloaded) and the weight distribution of the unloaded

= ?m ?m 3m 5m.

Fig. 6.49

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 252 ---
The ship girder 231

92

Weight tonnet/m
g
fo}

Fig. 6.50

7m
2
™ 459 ‘ase
Fig. 6.51

barge are constant over the parallel length of the barge, decreasing linearly
to zero at the two ends.

Draw curves of buoyancy, weight, loading, shear force and bending
moment for the barge loaded and at rest in salt water.

. A rectangular barge is 80m long and has a beam of 14m. The weight
distribution of the partially loaded barge is shown in Fig. 6.50. The barge
is floating at rest in still water. Draw curves of loading, shearing force and
bending moment, stating the maximum shearing force and bending moment
and the positions where they act.

. A barge, 70m long, has the cross-section shown in Fig. 6.51. The empty
weight is 420tonnef evenly distributed over the whole length, whereas the
load is spread evenly over the middle 42m of length. Draw the curves of
load, shearing force and bending moment for the barge, when it is loaded

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 253 ---
232 Basic ship theory

and balanced on a sea wave whose profile gives draughts, symmetrical about
amidships, as follows:

Section FE 2 3 4 5 Amidships
Draught (m) 5.00 4.55 3.61 2.60 2.10 2.00

6. A steel barge, shown in Fig. 6.52, of constant rectangular section, length
72 m, floats at a draught of 5m when loaded. The weight curve of the loaded
barge may be regarded as linear, from zero at the two ends to a maximum at
the mid-length. The structural section is shown below. If the stress in the
deck in still fresh water is not to exceed 123 MPa, estimate the thickness of
the plating if this is assumed to be constant throughout.

7. Ina calculation of the longitudinal strength for the sagging condition, the
following mean ordinates in tonnef/m were found for sectional lengths of a
ship each 12m long, starting from forward:

Section 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II
Weight 8.3. 12.6 24.2 48.2 66.2 70.0 65.1 40.7 23.3 13.0 6.0
Buoyancy 24.8 40.6 39.2 33.6 28.2 30.0 39.6 48.7 47.4 36.0 9.5

Draw the shearing force and bending moment diagrams and state the
positions and values of the maxima.

12m

Fig. 6.52

8. A dumb lighter is completely wall-sided, 100m long, 20m maximum beam
and it floats at a draught of 6 m in still water. The waterline is parabolic and
symmetrical about amidships with zero ordinates at the ends. The weight is
evenly distributed along its length.

If the vessel is 15m deep, has a sectional second mt. = 30m‘ and has a
neutral axis 6m from the keel, find the maximum hogging stress when
balanced on an L/20 wave.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 254 ---
The coordinates of a trochoid are:

x

7/20

Zz
1/20 0 0.018 0.073

01

deep with an assumed

Area
(cm?)
Above ANA 6,000
Below ANA 6,916

The ship girder 233
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
0.161 0.280 0.423 0.579 0.734 0.872 0.964 1.0

The following data apply to the half-section modulus of a ship girder 13.7m

neutral axis 6.1 m above the keel:

Ist moment about ANA 2nd moment about ANA

(m’) (m4)
3.15 19.88
2.91 14.59

Find the stresses in the keel and upper deck if the bending moment is

61,935 tonnef/m.

The data given below applies to a new frigate design. Draw the curves of

loading, shearing force and bending moment for the frigate and calculate
the maximum stresses in the keel and deck given that:

2nd moment of area of section about NA = 5.54m+*

total depth = 10.52m
NA above keel = 3.96m
length = 110m

3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11

m) 3.0 26.83 33.87 30.87 22.67 19.33 20.50 24.87 29.70 29.63 21.07

19.33 39.67 34.00 33.00 34.67 33.00 17.67 12.00

The particulars of a structural strength section 13 m deep, taken about mid-

Area Ist moment 2nd moment
(m?) (m’) (m')
0.33 1.82 12.75
0.41 2.16 14.35

maximum stress in the upper deck, for the hogging

condition, is found to be 122 N/mm”. Determine how many longitudinal
girders must be welded to the upper deck to reduce the stress to 100 N/mm?
under the same loading conditions, given that

(a) area of cross-section of each girder = 0.002 m?
(b) c.g. of each girder can be considered to be at the height of the upper deck.
(c) second moment of each girder about its own c.g. is negligible.

10.

Ordinate 1 2

Buoyancy

(tonnef/

Weight

(tonnetim) 12-67 18.67
11.

depth, are as follows:

Above mid-depth

Below mid-depth

On calculation, the

12.

Calculate the deck and keel moduli of the structural section given below.

Calculate the maximum stresses due to a sagging bending moment of

11,576 tonnef/m.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 255 ---
234 Basic ship theory

14.

The centre of area of each girder and longitudinal may be assumed to lie
in the plating to which it is attached. Second moments of girders about their
own c.gs are negligible.

10mm

Deck girders each 16.13cm*
3.3mm

Deck girders each 10cm?

2.44m 6mm

2.29m

Longitudinals each
21cm?

3.96m
10mm

2.29m 13mm

‘30cm x 19mm
61cm x 13mm

2.29m 3.96m

Fig. 6.53

. The forecastle of a destroyer is to be extended in aluminium alloy, over the

midships area by the structure shown below. Details of the existing steel
structural midship section are as follows:

Depth, keel to upper deck 6.1m
Neutral axis below upper deck 3.84m
Total area of section 4839 cm?
Second moment of area about NA 4.85 m4

Calculated upper deck hogging stress 106MPa

Calculate the stress in the deck of the alloy extension and the new keel
stress for the same bending moment.

The value of E for alloy should be taken as ; that for steel

- 12.2 m _
_— 6mm plating
0.61m
~N 102 x 13mm deck girders
0.61m
76 x 13mm flat bar A
0.61m 6mm plating
0.61m ja
Fig. 6.54

An aluminium superstructure made up of a deck 10m wide supported on
two sides 3m deep, is to be included for strength purposes with the steel
structural section whose particulars are as follows:

total area of section 0.545 m?
second moment of area 10.29 m4

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 256 ---
15.

16.

17.

18.

The ship girder 235

depth of section 14m
height of NA above keel 7.20m

Since the design stresses are already large, it is proposed to replace the
steel upper deck by one of aluminium of the same cross-sectional area of
0.09 m?.

Making reasonable first assumptions and assuming that stiffeners can be
taken with the plating, determine the area/metre run of the aluminium
superstructure deck and sides (assumed constant for deck and sides), to
maintain the same keel stress as before.

Take E for aluminium to be ; that for steel.

A rectangular vessel is 15m broad and 10m deep and has deck plating
5mm thick and sides and bottom 9mm thick. At a certain section, it is
subjected to a hogging bending moment of 65 MN m and a shearing force
of 3.15 MN. Calculate, in accordance with classical beam theory,

(a) Maximum tensile and compressive stresses,
(5) Maximum shearing stress.

If, in the previous example, the deck and bottom were 9mm thick and the
sides 5mm thick, what would then be the stresses?

A barge has a rectangular waterline 61 m long with a beam of 5.34m. When
it is floating in calm sea water, the position of the maximum longitudinal
bending moment is 6.1 m abaft amidships.

Deduce, from first principles, the influence lines, showing the effect on
the maximum still water BM of the addition of a unit concentrated
weight at any position along the length of the barge. What is the effect
of an addition (a) at the extreme after end, (b) at the point of maximum
BM?

Check that the effect of a load uniformly distributed along the length is
zero.

The particulars of a structural midship section, 12.2m deep, taken about
mid-depth, are as follows:

Area Moment 2nd moment

(cm) — (m’) (m*)
above mid-depth 3548 1.77 10.5
below mid-depth 4194 2.24 13.2

Displacement increases would cause deck stresses of 124MPa to arise in the
standard sagging condition.

It is proposed to stiffen up the section by the addition of ten girders to the
upper deck and five similar longitudinals to the flat bottom. If these stiffen-
ers are to be cut down versions of T bars having a cross-sectional area of
29cm?, determine the actual cross-sectional area required to reduce deck
design stress to 116 MPa.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 257 ---
236 Basic ship theory

19.

20.

21.

A barge is 60m long and completely symmetrical about amidships. It is
constructed of steel.

The following table gives the mean net loading between ordinates and the
second moments of area of sections at regular intervals between the for-
ward perpendicular and amidships:

Amidships FP
Ordinate 6 5 4 3 2 1
Load (tonnef/m) -19 -8 7 15 5
Second moment of area 1.77 1.77 1.77 1.60 1.28 0.42

(m*)
Estimate the breakage due to this loading, which is symmetrical about
amidships. E = 209 GN/m?.

The following table gives the loading diagram which was obtained after
balancing a ship of length 213m in the standard longitudinal strength
calculation:

AE 10 9 8 7 m 5 4 3 2 FP
Load 30 57 60 -60 -—70 -—90 -60 13 80 40
(tonnef. m)
T/(m*) 3.6 45 54 81 90 90 81 54 4.5 3.6 2.7

The neutral axis is 7.32 m below the strength deck. Find the stress in this
deck amidships.

The table also gives the MI of section at the ordinates. Estimate the
relative angular movement between a missile launcher at 3 ordinate and a
guidance radar amidships (E = 207 GPa).

A ship of length 105m is 9m deep. It is moored in the effluent of a power
station on a cold night, which results in the keel increasing in temperature
by 15° Celsius and the upper deck falling 15° Celsius.

Estimate the breakage resulting. The coefficient of linear expansion of
steel is 0.000012 in Celsius units.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 258 ---
7 Structural design and analysis

It is not possible within the confines of one chapter—or even a book of this
size—to present the naval architect with all that is needed to design and analyse
a ship’s structure. The object of this chapter is to provide an understanding of
the structural behaviour of the ship and a recognition of the unit problems.
Applied mechanics and mathematics will have provided the tools; now they
must be applied to specific problems. The scope and the limitations of different
theories must be known if they are to be used with success and the student
needs to be aware of the various works of reference. Recognition of the
problem and knowledge of the existence of a theory suitable for its solution
are exceedingly valuable to the practising engineer. There is rarely time to
indulge an advanced and elegant theory when a simple approach provides
an answer giving an accuracy compatible with the loading or the need.
On the other hand, if a simple approach is inadequate, it must be discarded.
It is therefore understanding and recognition which this chapter seeks to
provide.

Optimum design is often assumed to mean the minimum weight structure
capable of performing the required service. While weight is always significant,
cost, ease of fabrication and ease of maintenance are also important. Cost can
increase rapidly if non-standard sections or special quality materials are used;
fabrication is more difficult with some materials and, again, machining is
expensive. This chapter discusses methods for assessing the minimum require-
ments to provide against failure. The actual structure decided upon must reflect
all aspects of the problem.

The whole ship girder provides the background and the boundaries for local
structural design. The needs of the hull girder for areas at deck, keel and sides
must be met. Its breakdown into plating and stiffener must be determined; there
is also much structure required which is not associated with longitudinal
strength; finally, there are many particular fittings which require individual
design. An essential preliminary to the analysis of any structure or fitting,
however, is the assessment of the loading and criterion of failure.

LOADING AND FAILURE

Because it is partly the sea which causes the loading, some of the difficulties
arising in Chapter 6 in defining the loading apply here also. The sea imposes on
areas of the ship impact loads which have not yet been extensively measured,
although the compilation of a statistical distribution of such loading continues.
While more realistic information is steadily coming to hand, a loading which is
likely to provide a suitable basis for comparison must be decided upon and used
to compare the behaviour of previous successful and unsuccessful elements. For

237

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 259 ---
238 Basic ship theory

example, in designing a panel of plating in the outer bottom, hydrostatic
pressure due to draught might provide a suitable basis of comparison, and
examination of previous ships might indicate that when the ratio of permanent
set to thickness exceeded a certain percentage of the breadth to thickness ratio,
extensive cracking occurred.

Some loads to which parts of the structure are subject are known with some
accuracy. Test water pressure applied during building (to tanks for example),
often provides maximum loads to which the structure is subject during its life;
bulkheads cannot be subjected to a head greater than that to the uppermost
watertight deck, unless surging of liquid or shift of cargo is allowed for; forces
applied by machinery are generally known with some accuracy; acceleration
loads due to ship motion may be known statistically. More precise analytical
methods are warranted in these cases.

Having decided on the loading, the next step is to decide on the ultimate
behaviour, which, for brevity, will be called failure. From the point of view of
structural analysis, there are four possible ways of failing, by (a) direct fracture,
(5) fatigue fracture, (c) instability, and (d) unacceptable deformation.

(a) Direct fracture may be caused by a part of the structure reaching the
ultimate tensile, compressive, shear or crushing strengths. If metallurgical
or geometrical factors inhibit an otherwise ductile material, it may fail in a
brittle manner before the normally expected ultimate strength. It should be
noted, that yield does not by itself cause fracture and cannot therefore be
classed as failure in this context;
(6) Fatigue fracture. The elastic fatigue lives of test specimens of materials are
fairly well documented. The elastic fatigue lives of complex structures are
not divinable except by test, although published works of tests on similar
structural items may give a lead. The history of reversals in practical
structures at sea also requires definition. Corrosion fatigue is a special case
of accelerated failure under fatigue when the material is in a corrosive
element such as sea water. The ‘bent nail’ fatigue is another special case,
in which yield is exceeded with each reversal and the material withstands
very few reversals;
(c) Instability. In a strut, buckling causes an excessive lateral deflection; in a
plating panel, it may cause load shirking by the panel or wrinkling; in a
cylinder under radial pressure, instability may cause the circumference to
corrugate; in a plating stiffener it may cause torsional tripping. Most of
these types of instability failure are characterized by a relatively rapid
increase in deflection for a small increase in load and would generally be
regarded as failure if related to the whole structure; where only part of
the structure shirks its load, as sometimes happens, for example, with
panels of plating in the hull girder section, overall ‘failure’ does not neces-
sarily occur.
Deformation. A particular deflection may cause a physical foul with
machinery or may merely cause alarm to passengers, even though there is
no danger. Alignment of machinery may be upset by excessive deflection.

(d

LS

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 260 ---
Structural design and analysis 239

Such deformations may be in the elastic or the elasto-plastic range. The
stiffness of a structure may cause an excessive amplitude of vibration at a
well used frequency. Any of these could also constitute failure.

For each unit of structure in a ship, first the loading must be decided and
then the various ways in which it would be judged to have failed must be listed
and examined. What are these units of structure?

STRUCTURAL UNITS OF A SHIP

There are four basic types of structure with which the ship designer must deal:
(a) plating-stiffener combinations, (b) panels of plating, (c) frameworks,
(d) fittings.

(a) Plating-stiffener combinations. The simplest form of this is a single simple
beam attached to a plate. Many parallel beams supporting plating con-
stitute a grillage with unidirectional stiffening. Beams intersecting at right
angles constitute an orthogonally stiffened grillage. These various units
may be initially flat or curved, loaded in any plane and possess a variety
of shapes and boundaries.

(b) Panels of plating. These are normally rectangular and supported at the four
edges, subject to normal or in-plane loads. Initially, they may be nominally
flat or dished;

(c) Frameworks. These may be portals of one or more storeys. Frameworks
may be constituted by the transverse rings of side frames and deck beams or
the longitudinal ring of deck girder, bulkhead stiffeners and longitudinal.
They may be circular as in a submarine. Loading may be distributed or
concentrated in their planes or normal to their planes.

(d) Fittings. There is a great variety of fittings in ships the adequacy of whose
strength must be checked. Particular ones include control surfaces such

Fig. 7.1

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 261 ---
240 Basic ship theory

as rudders and hydroplanes, shaft brackets and spectacle plates, masts,
derricks, davits and machinery seatings.

Let us examine the methods of analysis available for each of these four basic
structural units.

Stiffened plating
SIMPLE BEAMS

Very many of the local strength problems in a ship can be solved adequately by
the application of simple beam theory to a single stiffener-plating combination.
This is permissible if the boundaries of the unit so isolated are truly represented
by forces and moments that adjacent units apply to it. Frequently, when there is
a series of similarly loaded units, the influence of adjacent units on the edges
will be zero; similarity longitudinally might also indicate that the end slopes are
zero. These edge constraints have a large influence and in many cases will not be
so easily determined. It is important that the deflection of the supporting
structure is negligible compared with the deflection of the isolated beam, if
the unit is to be correctly isolated; this is likely to be true if the supports are
bulkheads but not if they are orthogonal beams. A summary of results for
common problems in simple beams is given in Fig. 7.2.

According to the Bernoulli-Euler hypothesis from which the simple theory of
bending is deduced, sections plane before bending remain plane afterwards and

_M.
o=7FP

For many joists and girders this is very closely accurate. Wide flanged beams
and box girders, however, do not obey this law precisely because of the manner
in which shear is diffused from the webs into the flanges and across the flanges.
The direct stresses resulting from this diffusion do not quite follow this law but
vary from these values because sections do not remain plane. Distribution of
stress across stiffened plating under bending load is as shown by the wavy lines
in Fig. 7.3, and this effect is known as the shear lag effect. While the wavy
distribution of stress cannot be found without some advanced mathematics, the
maximum stress can still be found by simple beam theory if, instead of assum-
ing that all of the plating is partially effective, it is assumed that part of the
plating is wholly effective. This effective breadth of flange, A (Fig. 7.3), is used
to calculate the effective second moment of area of cross-section. It is depen-
dent on the type of loading and the geometry of the structure. Because it is quite
close to the neutral axis, the effective breadth of plating is not very influential
and a figure of thirty thicknesses of plating is commonly used and sufficiently
accurate; otherwise \ = B/2 is used.

There remains, in the investigation of the single stiffener-plating combin-
ation, the problem of behaviour under end load. Classical Euler theories assume
perfect struts and axial loads which never occur in practice. Many designers use
these or the Rankine-Gordon formula which embraces the overriding case of

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 262 ---
Fig. 7.2

Problem Bending moments Deflections

A “ we
BMa = WI 6 =< ——
B A B= 357
°
A pit
BMa = bn =
— Aas B= oy

y
>

a.4w _ Wx (l-—a > 2 Wwe 3x
A c pa = wa(52) 6 a" (2al — a? — x )+ Gayl -4l
t ‘ ifa= ! oa = we
“2 “8 48ET

* Disregard last term if x < a.

wt lq 6 = pl? {cosu(1 — 2x/l)
. pil? 2(1 —cosu) ~ 4Pi2 cosu 7
A ce BM, =~ -———
iad Sane se B's w cosu
U pd
op Spl
ifP=0, b=

~ 384ET

SISAJDUD PUD UBISap [DANJINALS

Ive

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 263 ---
Fig. 7.2 (cont.)

Problem

Bending moments

Deflections

BMc = mt ")

5 _ 2Wa l-a\?
ms 3ET \T+ 2a

a
BM. W(l—a)(-
ita al _ _Wi tant men we
ila = 7° BMa = BMe = fa => 8 = To7E7
2
pe 5 _pxe(l=x)
Tc P a4 BMa = BMc = 75 24ET
_— pls
t 6B =
384ET
For AB For AB
2ux a sj 4 ou
pm 7 ST * sin 2u(1 -4) si sin2u(1 i) "TT oxu (1-2)
Qu sin 2u ~ 2uP sin 2u / 1
max atx = 7 ora
Pp Spy wa du
A B c For BC For BC

. 2au 2 (1 *)
sin — sin 2u( 1 ——
BM — Wi 7 7

2u sin 2u

T
max at x=i(1 9) ora

. 2au . x
se wi sin——sin 2(t=7) 20,29
~ 2uP sin 2u /

A4soay) dys IIsvg THT

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 264 ---
Structural design and analysis 243

+ _— ——--e ——-—
B 8 8

Fig. 7.3 Shear lag effects

yield, together with a factor of safety often as high as twenty or thirty. This is
not a satisfactory approach, since it disguises the actual behaviour of the
member. Very often, in ship structures there will be a lateral load, which
transforms the problem from one of elastic instability into one of bending with
end load. Typical solutions appear in Fig. 7.2. The lateral load might be sea
pressure, wind, concentrated weights, personnel load, cargo or flooding pres-
sure. However, there will, occasionally, arise problems where there is no lateral
load in the worst design case. How should the designer proceed then?

Practical structures are always, unintentionally, manufactured with an initial
bow, due to welding distortion, their own weight, rough handling or processes
of manufacture. It can be shown that the deflection of a strut with an initial
simple bow yo is given by:

_ Pe
Y= PLP

yo (vy is the total deflection, including yo).

Pp /(Pr — P) is called the exaggeration factor. Px is the classical Euler collapse
load, Pe = 7° EI/I’, | being the effective length (Fig. 7.4).

The designer must therefore decide first what initial bow is likely; while some
measurements have been taken of these in practical ship structures, the designer
will frequently have to make a common-sense estimate. Having decided the
value, and calculated the Euler load, the designer can find the maximum
deflection from the equation above.

The maximum bending moment for a member in which end rotation is not
constrained is, of course,

Max BM = Pymax

In general, so far as end loading is concerned, the assumption of simple support
is safe.
GRILLAGES

Consider the effect of a concentrated weight W on two simply-supported beams
at right angles to each other as shown in Fig. 7.5. This is the simplest form of

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 265 ---
244 Basic ship theory

Fig. 7.4

grillage. Assume that the beams, defined by suffixes 1 and 2, intersect each other
in the middle and that each is simply supported. What is not immediately
obvious is how much the flexure of beam | contributes to supporting W and
how much is contributed by the flexure of beam 2. Let the division of W at the
middles be R; and R>, then

Rit R=W
Examining each beam separately, the central deflections are given by

Re
1 48El,

A wa
c B
R,
A 8
Rye Rye

;-—-+$ 4

Cc D
Rope Rope

Fig. 7.5


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 266 ---
Structural design and analysis 245

and

_ Bol}
~ 48EL

62
But, if the beams do not part company, 6; = 62

Ri Rb
“Th b

Since Rj + Ro = W,

WE 1

xt _

48Eh ( bt)
1+

ne

and the maximum bending moments in the two beams are

Ril, WI
Max BM, = a = aa
4(1 425
( in)
Max BM) = Reh —__Wh

q *)
a(142 ;
This has been an exceedingly simple problem to solve. It is not difficult to see,

however, that computation of this sort could very quickly become laborious.
Three beams in each direction, unaided by symmetry could give rise to nine
unknowns solved by nine simultaneous equations. Moreover, a degree of fixity
at the edges introduces twelve unknown moments while moments at the inter-
sections cause twist in the orthogonal beams. Edge restraint, uneven spacing of
stiffeners, differing stiffeners, contribution from plating, shear deflection and
other factors all further contribute to making the problem very difficult indeed.

C—e €
Fig. 7.6
Mathematical theories have evolved to solve a great range of such problems

whose solutions are available through computer programs and, in some cases,
by data sheets.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 267 ---
246 Basic ship theory

SWEDGED PLATING

Fabrication costs can be reduced in the construction of surfaces which need not
be plane, by omitting stiffeners altogether and creating the necessary flexural
rigidity by corrugated or swedged plating. Main transverse bulkheads in a large
oil tanker, for example, may have a depth of swedge of 25 cm. Such plating is
incorporated into the ship to accept end load in the direction of the swedges as
well as lateral loading. It tends to create difficulties of structural discontinuity
where the swedge meets conventional stiffeners, for example where the main
transverse bulkhead swedges meet longitudinal deck girders.

Buckling of some faces of the plating is possible if the swedges are not
properly proportioned and it is this difficulty, together with the shear diffusion
in the plating, which makes the application of simple beam theory inadequate.
Properly designed, corrugated plating is highly efficient.

COMPREHENSIVE TREATMENT OF STIFFENED PLATING

As will be discussed presently, panels or stiffened plating may shirk their duty
by buckling so that they do not make their expected contribution to the overall
ship’s sectional modulus. This shirking, or load shortening, is illustrated in Fig.
7.7. This shows that the load shortening depends upon:

(a) the imperfections of the stiffeners in the form of a bow

(b) plating panel slenderness ratio 6 = (b/t),\/oy/E

(c) the ratio of stiffener cross section A, to the overall cross section
A(A,/A = 0.2 average imperfections of stiffener)

(d) the stiffener slenderness ratio

1 loy
v=, /
tk \V E

107

A=0.26=1

oloy
d=0.2 8=4

3.0

eley

Fig. 7.7 Load shortening curves for panels with tee bar stiffeners

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 268 ---
Structural design and analysis 247

where & is the radius of gyration of the plating/stiffener combination and / is
the stiffener length.

Note from Fig. 7.7 the sudden nature of the change, occurring especially for
high values of \. A;/A is also found to be very significant as might be expected.
Readers are referred to published papers for a more complete appraisal and also
for load shortening curves for plating panels alone like that shown in Fig. 7.37.

Panels of plating

Knowledge of the behaviour of panels of plating under lateral pressure (some-
times called plate elements) has advanced rapidly in the last 40 years. It is
important for the designer to understand the actual behaviour of plates under
this loading, so that the theory or results most suitable for the application can be
selected. To do this, consider how a panel behaves as the pressure is increased.

BEHAVIOUR OF PANELS UNDER LATERAL LOADING

Consider, at first, the behaviour of a rectangular panel with its four edges
clamped, and unable to move towards each other. As soon as pressure is
applied to one side, elements in the plate develop a flexural resistance much
like the elements of a simple beam but in orthogonal directions. Theories
relating the pressure to the elastic flexural resistance of the plate alone are
called small deflection theories. As the pressure is increased and deflection of the
same order as the plate thickness results, the resistance of the plate to the
pressure stiffens because of the influence of membrane tension. This influence
is dependent upon the deflection, since the resistance is due to the resolute of
the tension against the direction of the pressure. Clearly, it has but a small
influence when the deflection is small. Figure 7.9 shows a typical section
through the plate; the orthogonal section would be similar. Elastic theories
which take into account both flexural rigidity and membrane tension are called
large deflection theories.

Fig. 7.8 Flexural resistance of a plate

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 269 ---
248 Basic ship theory

Fig. 7.9 Membrane tension effects in a plate

With a further increase in pressure, yield sets in, deflection increases more
rapidly and the effect of membrane tension becomes predominant. The plate is
partly elastic and partly plastic and theories relating to the behaviour following
the onset of yield are called elasto-plastic theories. Yield is first reached at the
middles of the two longer sides on the pressure side of the plate; soon after-
wards, yield is reached on the other side of the plate and this area of plasticity
spreads towards the corners. Plasticity spreads with increase in pressure in the
stages illustrated in Fig. 7.10. The plastic areas, once they have developed
through the thickness, are called hinges since they offer constant resistance to
rotation. Finally, once the hinges have joined to form a figure of eight, distor-
tion is rapid and the plate distends like a football bladder until the ultimate
tensile strength is reached.

The precise pattern of behaviour depends on the dimensions of the panel but
this description is typical. There can be no doubt that after the first onset of
yield, a great deal of strength remains. Unless there are good reasons not to do
so, the designer would be foolish not to take advantage of this strength to effect
an economical design. Once again, this brings us to an examination of ‘failure’.
As far as a panel under lateral pressure is concerned, failure is likely to be either
fatigue fracture or unacceptable deflection. Deflection considered unacceptable
for reasons of appearance, to avoid the ‘starved horse’ look, might nowadays
be thought an uneconomical criterion. In considering fatigue fracture, it must
be remembered that any yield will cause some permanent set; removal of the
load and reapplication of any lesser load will not increase the permanent set
and the plate will behave elastically. A plate designed to yield under a load met
very rarely, will behave elastically for all of its life save for the one loading
which causes the maximum permanent set. Indeed, initial permanent set caused
by welding distortion will permit the plate to behave elastically, thereafter, if
this is taken as the maximum acceptable permanent set.

In ship’s structures, small deflection elastic theories would be used for plates
with high fluctuating loading such as those opposite the propeller blades in the
outer bottom and where no permanent set can be tolerated in the flat keel, or
around sonar domes, for example, in the outer bottom. Large deflection elastic
theory is applicable where deflection exceeds about a half the thickness, as is
likely in thinner panels. Elastoplastic theories are appropriate for large areas of
the shell, for decks, bulkheads and tanks.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 270 ---
Structural design and analysis 249

Ix

a

Section XX Plan (reduced)
Fig. 7.10 Onset of plasticity in a plate
AVAILABLE RESULTS FOR FLAT PLATES UNDER LATERAL PRESSURE

The three ranges covered by the different theories are illustrated in Fig. 7.11. It
is clear that unless the correct theory is chosen, large errors can result.

For plates with totally clamped edges (which are rare):

pb

Central deflection = k, 3g4D

b\2
Maximum stress = k> 4 (*)

where

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 271 ---
250 Basic ship theory

1.
A" theory
def Oe

Deflection

Onset of
yield

Load

Fig. 7.11 Comparison of plate theories

_ EF
~ 1201 = v?)

k, and k2 are non-dimensional and the units should be consistent.

D

Pressure = p

n 1 1.25 1.50 1.75 2 oo

ki 0.486 0.701 0.845 0.928 0.976 1.0

ky 0.616 0.796 0.906 0.968 0.994 1.0

Large deflection elastic theory gives results as shown in Fig. 7.13.
Elasto-plastic results are based upon the maximum allowable pressure
defined, arbitrarily, as the lesser pressure which will cause either

(a) a central plastic hinge in a long plate or 1.25 times the pressure which
causes yield at the centre of a square plate; or
(5) the membrane tension to be two-thirds the yield stress.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 272 ---
Structural design and analysis 251

80 b\* By small 20
0, = maximum tensile stress at plate centre oz (e) y small
i E\t/ deflection
o2= maximum tensile stress at midlength of long side | theory
70 ‘03= membrane stress in plate
8 = maximum deflection
= lateral pressure _| Ze !
60 ps jateral pressui er TR =e aul?
: ZV2 2)
Thickness t 3
50 :
P Pressure p 92\ 9
“4 ig 3
EGY 40 a oF
30
0, (bv 2 Oo 05
* + Gs
2
to ? @ 12 be @o
10-0
fe) 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220

Fig. 7.13 Large deflection results

The first criterion applies to thick plates and the latter to thin plates. Design
curves giving maximum permissible pressure, deflection and permanent set
based on these criteria are shown in Fig. 7.14. Results from an important
extension to plate theory, in which pressures have been calculated which will
not permit any increase in an initial permanent set, i.e. the plate, after an initial
permanent set (caused perhaps by welding) behaves elastically, are presented in
Fig. 7.15 for long plates.

In considering the real behaviour of panels forming part of a grillage it has
been shown that the pull-in at the edges has an appreciable effect on panel
behaviour, and that a panel in a grillage does not have the edge constraint
necessary to ensure behaviour in the manner of Fig. 7.14. The edge constraint
which can give rise to membrane tension arises from the hoop effects in the
plane of the boundary. Figure 7.16 gives design curves assuming that the edges
of the panel are free to move inwards.

EXAMPLE 1. Compare the design pressures suitable for a steel plate
0.56m x 1.26m = 6mm yielding at 278 N/mm? assuming, (a) the edges fixed
and (b) the edges free to move inwards. Calculate also the pressure which will
not cause additional permanent set above an initial bow of 2.8mm due to
welding. Had the plate been initially flat, what pressure would have first caused
yield?

Solution:

a 1.26 bro} 0.56 ( 278 \?
b 0.56 225; 7(%) aus (05-500) 34


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 273 ---
252 Basic ship theory

60mm o6
EE H Ht EHH
soHHHHs Sp co) 0-5
Hs eflechion under load nee:
+H +H
40 ae hickness t ce 0-4
- bul pressure pI H
E Pressure = 3 value for centre plastic hinge SB /(EYP
= 30FH aedeueen rit 035 (€)
pre Pe EE
Manis
eat Sef it
20 3 Hert 02
by Ht
Ke
E enh saeenee Ht |
feng
Sige Drees O-
HoH a
t
sen
HH
Toe
0-0 0 2:0 3-0 40 5-0 6:0
1
b (9%)?
Tt VE)
Fig. 7.14 Elasto-plastic results
for which Fig. 7.14 gives

E 6 (EN?
saad = 1.00 approx. and — (=) = 0.224
a b

Hence,

1.00 x 2787

_ 2
“309,000 = 0.37 N/mm

design pressure =
Using the same criterion of failure, viz. a permanent set coefficient of 0.224 and
interpolating between the two diagrams of Fig. 7.16,

pe
o

= 0.57 approx.

Hence,

0.57
design pressure = Too * 0.37 = 0.21 N/mm?

From Fig. 7.15, with a permanent deflection coefficient of

0.0028 /209,000 oy
278

1
1 b i
a a) = 0.137, and - (2) =3Al,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 274 ---
Structural design and analysis 253

Permanent defi
coefficient =

N.B.Permanent deflection in
direction of design —
pressure p

Fig. 7.15

the pressure which will not cause additional permanent set is obtained from
pE/o; = 0.50, whence
_ 0.50

_ 2
P= 700 * 0.37 = 0.185 N/mm

To find the pressure at which this plate begins first to yield, try first small
deflection theory:

= 2.25 so that k2 = 1.0 approximately

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 275 ---
254 Basic ship theory

Perm set

:

Fig. 7.16 Design curves for panels with edges free to move inwards

Then
278 N/mm? =2 (226 °
~ 2\0.006
whence

p = 0.0638 N/mm?
Check the deflection at first yield:

Eb 209(6)710-6
12(1 — v2) ~ 12(1 — 0.09)
0.98 x 0.0638(0.56)*

384 x 0.00413

D

0.00413 MN m and k; = 0.98

deflection = =39mm

Small deflection theory thus gives a deflection about 65 per cent of the thickness
and is probably adequate. However, let us take this example to illustrate the use
of large deflection theory. Because the stress is divided into two parts, direct
calculation of the pressure to cause yield is not possible, and two trial pressures
must be taken: referring to Fig. 7.13,

a (b\> 278 (0.56\? 16
E\7) ~ 209,000 \0.006 ;


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 276 ---
Structural design and analysis 255

Now, for

b\* 0.06 0.56 \4
=0.06N/mm2 2(2) = =21.8
pP /mm =F (*) 209,000 (San)

whence, from Fig. 7.13,

oy (b\? fr (b\?
E (*) 1.2 and (7 10.1

thus, 73 = 28.8 and 0) = 242.3 so that the total stress is 271 N/mm”. Similarly,
for p = 0.07 N/mm?

4
p (b\*_ 0.07 _
£(2) = Fog X 218 = 254

a3 (b\7_ fh (b\*_
(F)=18 and a(t =11.2

so that ¢ = 31.2 + 268.7 = 300 N/mm?

By interpolation, the pressure first to cause yield of 278N/mm? is
0.062 N/mm?. This example typifies the use of Fig. 7.13 for large deflection
elastic theory; in this particular case, it confirms that small deflection theory
was, in fact, sufficiently accurate.

BUCKLING OF PANELS

Buckling of panels in the direction of the applied lateral pressure is known as
snap through buckling. This is likely where the initial permanent set is 1} —
times the thickness.

Buckling due to edge loading has been dealt with on a theoretical basis. For a
panel simply supported at its edges, the critical buckling stress is given by

Oc

kwE (‘)

~ 121 — 2) \b

where k is given by Fig. 7.17. When a plate does buckle in this way, it may not
be obvious that it has occurred; in fact, the middle part of the panel shirks its
load which is thrown on to the edge stiffeners. It is common practice to examine
only the buckling behaviour of these stiffeners associated with a width of
plating equal to thirty times its thickness.

Buckling due to shear in the plane of the plate causes wrinkling in the plate at
about 45 degrees. Such a failure has been observed in the side plating of small
ships at the sections of maximum shear. The critical shear stress is given by

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 277 ---
256 Basic ship theory

Fig. 7.17

where k = 4.8 + 3.6 (b/a)” for edges simply supported or k = 8.1 + 5.1(b/a)
or edges clamped. A more truly representative examination of panel behaviour
under biaxial compression and lateral pressure is given in the comprehensive
work by C. S. Smith, et al., published by the RINA. This important culmin-
ation of many years of research enables a designer to determine optimum
panel shapes and to take into account initial strains and imperfections in the
plating.

Frameworks

Analysis of the three-dimensional curved shape of the hull between main bulk-
heads is the correct approach to the determination of its strength. Finite
element techniques can be used for this but, for the student, the reduction of
the problem to two-dimensional strips or frames remains important. In redu-
cing the problem to two-dimensional frameworks, it is necessary to be aware
that approximations are being made.

There are, in general, three types of plane framework with which the ship
designer is concerned:

(a) orthogonal portals
(5) ship-shape rings
(c) circular rings.

Portals arise in the consideration of deckhouses, superstructures and similar
structures and may have one or more storeys. If the loading in the plane of the
portal is concentrated, the effect of the structure perpendicular to the plane of
the portal is likely to be one of assistance to its strength. If the loading is spread
over many portals, one of which is being isolated for analysis, the effects of the
structure perpendicular to its plane will be small, from considerations of
symmetry unless there is sidesway when the in-plane stiffness of the plating will
be appreciable. Thus, the reduction of the problems to two-dimensional
frameworks is, in general, pessimistic and safe, although each problem should
be examined on its merits.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 278 ---
Structural design and analysis 257

Ship-shape rings arise by isolating a transverse slice of the ship, comprising
bottom structure, side frames and deck beams, together with their associated
plating. Treatment of the complete curved shell in this manner is likely to be
highly pessimistic because the effect of longitudinal structure in keeping this
ring to shape must be considerable. These longitudinals connect the ring to
transverse bulkheads with enormous rigidity in their own planes. The calcula-
tions are, nevertheless, performed to detect the likely bending moment distribu-
tion around the ring so that material may be distributed to meet it. Transverse
strength calculations are, therefore, generally comparative in nature except,
perhaps, in ships framed predominantly transversely.

Circular rings occur in submarines and other pressure vessels, such as those
containing nuclear reactors.

METHODS OF ANALYSIS

There are many good textbooks available, which explain the various analytical
tools suitable for frameworks in more detail than is possible here. Standard
textbooks on structural analysis treat the more common framed structures
met in ship design. A brief summary of four methods of particular use to the
naval architect may, however, be worthwhile. These methods are: (a) moment
distribution, (b) slope-deflection, (c) energy methods, and (d) limit design
methods.

(a) The moment distribution of Hardy Cross is particularly suitable for portal
problems where members are straight and perpendicular to each other. Bending
moment distribution is obtained very readily by this method but slopes and
deflection are not obtained without the somewhat more general relaxation
methods of R. V. Southwell.

The moment distribution process is one of iteration in methodical sequence
as follows:

(i) all joints of the framework are assumed frozen in space, the loading
affecting each beam as if it were totally encastre, with end fixing moments;

(ii) one joint is allowed to rotate, the total moment at the joint being distrib-
uted amongst all the members forming the joint according to the formula
(1/l)/(21/D; the application of such a moment to a beam causes a carry-
over of one-half this value (if encastre at the other end) to the far end,
which is part of another joint;

(iii) this joint is then frozen and a half of the applied moment is carried over to
each remote end (sometimes, the carry-over factor is less than one-half-
indeed, when the remote end is pinned, it is zero);

(iv) the process is repeated at successive joints throughout the framework until
the total moments at each joint are in balance.

This process prevents sidesway of the framework which occurs unless there is
complete symmetry. This is detected by an out-of-balance moment on the
overall framework. As a second cycle of operations therefore, sufficient side
force is applied to liquidate this out-of-balance without allowing joint rotation,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 279 ---
258 Basic ship theory

thus causing new fixing moments at the joints. These are then relaxed by
repeating the first cycle of operations and so on. A simple example of a moment
distribution is given presently, but for a full treatment, the student is referred to
standard textbooks on the analysis of frameworks.
(b) Slope deflection analysis is based upon the fundamental equation
dy
M=EI a2
Thence, the area of the M/EI-curve, = [4 dx, gives the change of slope,
dy/dx. Integrated between two points in a beam, dx gives the difference in
the slopes of the tangents at the two points. Further, Me dx between A and B,
i.e. the moment of the M/EI-diagram about a point A gives the distance AD
between the tangent to B and the deflected shape as shown in Fig. 7.18. These
two properties of the M/EI-diagram are used to determine the distribution of
bending moment round a framework.
Consider the application of the second principle to a single beam AB sub-
jected to an external loading and end fixing moments Mag and Mga at which
the slopes are @ap and ga, positive in the direction shown in Fig. 7.18.

Fixing moments

Fig. 7.18

Let the first moment of the free bending moment diagram (i.e. that due to the
external loading assuming the ends to be pinned) about the ends A and B be
respectively ma and mg. Then, taking moments of the M/E/-diagram about A,

Mapl (Map t+ Mpa) 27 _ ma
EI 2 2EI 3° EI

—l0ga +6

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 280 ---
Structural design and analysis 259

ie.
1 6ma 6
Opa = —~—( Map —2Mpa +—~) +5
BA atl AB BA + me) +5
Taking moments about B,
Map? (Map+Mpa)? mp .
t 16apn—6

EI 2 2EI 3 El
ie.

1 6mg 6
OaB = aad (24m — Mpa + ) +5

These expressions are fundamental to the slope deflection analysis of frame-
works. They may be applied, for example, to the simple portal ABCD of
Fig. 7.19, expressions being obtained for the six slopes, two of which will be
zero and two pairs of which (if C and B are rigid joints) will be equated. On
eliminating all these slopes there will remain five equations from which the five
unknowns, Map, Mpa, Mcp, Mpc and 6 can be found. This method has the
advantage over moment distribution of supplying distortions, but it becomes
arithmetically difficult when there are several bays. It is suitable for computa-
tion by computer where repetitive calculations render a program worth writing.
Sign conventions are important.

Fig. 7.19

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 281 ---
260 Basic ship theory

(c) The energy method most useful in the context of this chapter is based on a
theorem of Castigliano. This states that the partial derivative of the total strain
energy U with respect to each applied load is equal to the displacement of the
structure at the point of application in the direction of the load:

OU...
Zp = Sp
oP
The expressions for strain energies U due to direct load, pure bending, torsion
and shear are:
Direct load P, member of cross-sectional area A,

P2
U= /se™

Bending moment M, curved beam of second moment J,

M
U= [a

Torque 7, member of polar second moment J,

Tr
U= |sa**

Shearing force S, element of cross-sectional area A, (Fig. 7.20)

S? 7r?*Adx
U [se [=

Fig. 7.20

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 282 ---
Structural design and analysis 261

The strain energy in a cantilever of rectangular cross-section a x b, for example,
with an end load W is given by

ab
U x+ [ [kz dA dx
0 sr 0 Jo 2C

Now shear stress 7 varies over a cross-section according to the expression
7 = (SA/Ib)y. For the rectangular cantilever then,

6W (a 2
-S(4-”) and ddA=bdy.

Then
Wee a2 rligw? (at _@y
U — + y4 \dydy
0 +2 f [Se (e- 2 ava
See
~ 6EI * 5abC

End deflection

OU Ws owl
OW 3ET + sabe

The first expression is the bending deflection as given in Fig. 7.2, and the second
expression is the shear deflection.

In applying strain energy theorems to the ring frameworks found in ship
structures, it is common to ignore the effects of shear and direct load which are
small in comparison with those due to bending. Confining attention to bending
effects, the generalized expression becomes

_ OU _ [MOM
~ OP J ETOP
Applying this, by example, to a simple ship-shape ring with a rigid centre line

bulkhead which can be replaced by three unknown forces and moments, these
can be found from the three expressions, since all displacements at B are zero:

é6=

9 =U _ MoM |,
OH EI OH
_OU_ [Mam
~ OV J EIAV

_ OU _ [MOM ds
OM J EIOMs
summed for members BC and CDE.
Expressions for the bending moment M in terms of V, H, Mz and the applied

load can be written down for members BC and CDE, added, and the above
expressions determined. Hence V, H and Mg can be found and the bending

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 283 ---
262 Basic ship theory

Fig. 7.21

moment diagram drawn. This method has the advantage that it deals readily
with frames of varying inertia, the integrations being carried out by Simpson’s
rule. Like the slope deflection method, the arithmetic can become formidable.

(d) The limit design method is called also plastic design or collapse design.
This method uses knowledge of the behaviour of a ductile material in bending
beyond the yield point. A beam bent by end couples M within the elastic limit
has a cross-section in which the stress is proportional to the distance from the
neutral axis,

I
M =oZ where Z=-, the section modulus.
y

N A

Fig. 7.22

Bent further, yield is reached first in the outer fibres and spreads until the whole
cross-section has yielded, when the plastic moment, M, = oyS where S is the
addition of the first moments of area of each side about the neutral axis and is
called the plastic modulus. The ratio $/Z is called the shape factor which has
a value 1.5 for a rectangle, about 1.2 for a rolled steel section and about 1.3 for
a plating-stiffener combination. When a beam has yielded across its section, its

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 284 ---
Structural design and analysis 263

ade

Fig. 7.23

—_—_ —_—
— —
Fig. 7.24

moment of resistance is constant and the beam is said to have formed a plastic
hinge.

The least load which forms sufficient plastic hinges in a framework to trans-
form it into a mechanism is called the collapse load. A portal, for example,
which has formed plastic hinges as shown in Fig. 7.24 has become a mechanism
and has ‘collapsed’. Let us apply this principle to an encastre beam (Fig. 7.25).

If yield is assumed to represent ‘failure’ by an elastic method of design, the
maximum uniformly distributed load that the beam can withstand is (from Fig. 7.2)

| _ 12Zoy
pap

Using the definition of failure for the plastic method of design, however,
collapse occurs when hinges occur at A, B and C, and they will all be equal
to tp'(P/8), ie.

1 16Soy
pap


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 285 ---
264 Basic ship theory

Fig. 7.25

If the shape factor for the beam section is taken as 1.2, the ratio of these two
maximum carrying loads is 1.6, i.e. 60 per cent more load can be carried after
the onset of yield before the beam collapses.

The plastic design method is often more conveniently applied through the
principle of virtual work whence the distance through which an applied load
moves is equated to the work done in rotating a plastic hinge. In the simple case
illustrated in Fig. 7.26, for example,

16
W> = My + Myf + My(20) = 4My6

i.e. collapse load, W = 8M,//. This method can be used for finding the collapse
loads of grillages under concentrated load; in this case, various patterns of
plastic hinges may have to be tried in order to find the least load which would
cause a mechanism (Fig. 7.27).

Nie

Fig. 7.26

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 286 ---
Structural design and analysis 265

Fig. 7.27

Knowledge of the collapse loads of superstructures under nuclear blast or
extreme winds is necessary, and the limit design method is the only way of
calculating them. The method is suitable for the determination of behaviour of
other parts of a ship structure subject to once-in-a-lifetime extreme loads such
as bulkheads. Use of the method with a known factor of safety (or load factor),
can ensure normal behaviour in the elastic range and exceptional behaviour in
the plastic range—it is indeed, the only method which illustrates the real load
factor over working load.

ELASTIC STABILITY OF A FRAME

The type of elastic instability of major concern to the designer of plated framed
structures in a ship is that causing tripping, i.e. the torsional collapse of a
stiffener sideways when the plating is under lateral load. Tripping is more likely,

(a) with unsymmetrical stiffener sections,

(5) with increasing curvature,

(c) with the free flange of the stiffener in compression, rather than in tension,

(d) at positions of maximum bending moment, especially in way of concen-
trated loads.

Recommended spacing, /, for tripping brackets is summarized in Fig. 7.28 for
straight tee stiffeners and for curved tee stiffeners for which R/W is greater than 70.

For curved stiffeners for which R/W is less than 70, Fig. 7.28 may be used by
putting /’ = R//70W. For straight unsymmetrical stiffeners / should not exceed
8W. For curved unsymmetrical stiffeners for which R is more than 4f?h/e
(unsymmetrical stiffeners should not otherwise be used), /=(R w/5): if the
flange is in compression and (2RW/5): if in tension.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 287 ---
266 Basic ship theory

= Spacing of tripping brackets
R= Radius of curvature of stiffener

Fig. 7.28 Spacing of tripping brackets

The elastic stability of a circular ring frame under radial and end compres-
sion is the basis of important investigations in the design of submarines.
Theoretically a perfectly circular ring under radial compression will collapse
in a number of circumferential corrugations or lobes. Under additional end
loading, a ring stiffened cylinder may collapse by longitudinal corrugation; this
load, too, alters the number of circumferential lobes due to radial pressure.
Elastic instability of the whole ring stiffened cylinder between bulkheads is also
possible. Finally, built-in distortions in a practical structure have an important
effect on the type of collapse and the magnitude of the collapse loads. These
problems involve lengthy mathematics and will not be pursued in this book.
The government of the diving depth of the submarine by consideration of such
elastic stability should, nevertheless, be understood.

END CONSTRAINT

The degree of rotational end constraint has more effect on deflections than it has on
stresses. End constraints in practical ship structures approach the clamped condi-
tion for flexural considerations, provided that the stiffeners are properly continuous
at the joint. The degree of rotational end constraint of a member is due to

(a) the stiffness of the joint itself. It is relatively simple to produce a joint which
can develop the full plastic moment of the strongest of the members enter-
ing the joint; no more is necessary;

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 288 ---
Structural design and analysis 267

(b) the effects of the other members entering the joint. These can be calculated
to give the actual rotational stiffness pertaining to the member.

A square joint can provide entirely adequate stiffness. Brackets may be
introduced to cheapen fabrication and they also reduce, slightly, the effective
span of the member. The reduction in span (Fig. 7.29) is

, 26
 1+d/B

EXAMPLE 2. The gantry for an overhead gravity davit comprises, essentially, a
vertical deck edge stanchion 10m high and an overhead member 15m long
sloping upwards at 30 degrees to the horizontal, inboard from the top of the
stanchion. The two members are of the same section rigidly joined together and
may be considered encastre where they join the ship.

A weight of 12tonnef acts vertically downwards in the middle of the top
member. Compare the analyses of this problem by (a) arched rib analysis, (b)
slope deflection, and (c) moment distribution.

Solution (a): Arched rib analysis (Castigliano’s theorem)

For a point P in AB distance x from A, BM = My — Axsin30—
Vx cos 30 + 12 cos 30[x — 7.5], where the term [ ] is included only if positive,
ie.,

Hx 13x 13 15
M Mo->—V55 hax |e- 5]
OM OM x OM 13x

=1, =, —_
OMy " OH 2” ov 15


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 289 ---
268 Basic ship theory

75m

Fig. 7.30

Hence, taking care to integrate the Macaulay’s brackets between the correct

limits,

M
[ue dx = 15Mp — 56.3H — 97.5V + 292.5
OMo

OM
"a dx 56.3Mo + 281.3H + 487.5V — 1828

[uz dx 97.6Mo + 487.5H + 845.0V — 3169

Similarly, for BC,

15
M=Mo~H—~~— 13V +78 — Hx

2

OM OM (F

1,
OMy " OH

Hence, again, by integrating

ov

x), oM —13

OM
M —— dx = 10Mp — 125H — 130V + 780
/ OM * ° *

1646H + 1625V — 9750

OM
[on dx = —125My

OM
[uo dx 130Mo

1625H + 1690V — 10,140

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 290 ---
Structural design and analysis 269

Adding the similar expressions for AB and BC and equating to zero gives three
simultaneous equations. whence

V=592, H=1.71, Mj) =234
Putting these values back into the expressions for bending moment gives
Mp = 21.5, Mp=11.6, Mc =-—5.5
The BM diagram can thus be plotted.
A good deal of algebra has, of course, been omitted above.
Solution (b): Slope deflection (Fig. 7.31)

157
2

1
Moment of free BM diagram about A or B = 3% 39 x

= 2195 =m, =mpg

A 8

Se
15m
Free BM diagram

Fig. 7.31

From the slope deflection equations derived earlier:

15 6 x 2195
Aan = 0 (24.0 ~ Mos +O)

~ 6EI 225
15 6 x 2195
ban = — aay (Man — 2M + S52 )
Oc = o (2Mpc — Mer)
BC ~ GET BC CB
ben = 0 = — 1 (Mge — 2M ce)
CB = VU= 6EI BC CB

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 291 ---
270 Basic ship theory

Now 6g, = 4gc. Eliminating 6 and solving the simultaneous equations gives

Map = —23.4
Mpa = 11.7 = —Mpc
Mcp = -5.9

Solution (c): Moment distribution, in the manner described in the text

A B Cc
Map Mpa Mpc Mcp
a wi
Fixing moment — 19.5 —19.5 0 0
oe q/l
Distribution factors / _— 2 3 —
xI/I
Carry over factors 4 4
Fix 19.5 —19.5 0 0
Distribute 7.8 11.7
Carry over 3.9 5.8

Totals 23.4 —11.7 11.7 5.8

From any of the above solutions the BM diagram can be sketched (Fig. 7.32).

Fig. 7.32

EXAMPLE 3. An engine room bulkhead 10m high is propped on one side by
three equally spaced intermediate decks. Stiffeners are uni-directional and, in
order to be continuous with longitudinals, must be equally spaced 0.5m apart.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 292 ---
Structural design and analysis 271

Once-in-a-lifetime loading of flooding up to 5m above the compartment
crown is judged necessary. Top and bottom may be assumed encastre.

Compare the section moduli of stiffeners and plating thicknesses required by
fully elastic and elasto-plastic analyses.

Solution: Assume, for simplicity that the hydrostatic loading is evenly distrib-
uted between each deck with a value equal to the value at mid-deck.

tonnef

Pressure A to B = (5 + 1.25)m x 1.025 = 6.41 tonnef /m?

m3

Load per metre on each stiffener A to B = 6.41 x 0.5 = 3.20 tonnef/m

2.5m 2.5m 2.5m 2.5m

a. hbk bk

Fig. 7.33

Similarly, pressures and loads on other spans are

AB BC CD DE
P, press. (tonnef/m?) 6.41 8.97 11.53 14.09
p’, load (tonnef /m) 3.20 4.48 5.77 7.05

Plating thickness: Use large deflection elastic theory, the results of which are
given in Fig. 7.13. The aspect ratio a/b =2.5/0.5=5 so use curves for
a/b = infinity. Maximum stress is at the plate edge given by the addition of
o2 and o3 and it is necessary to use trial values of thickness. For AB,

b\* 6.41 0.5 x 100\4
, (7) 09 x 107 ( = ) for trial value of t= 0.5cm,
E = 2.09 x 10’ tonnef /m?

= 31 for which, with a/b = infinity,

2.09 x 107

o = ——— (14 +2) = 3.34 tonnef /em?
aoe t+) /
For a second trial value of t = 0.7cm, similarly with (b/1)4p/E = 8.0
7
c= 2.09 x 10" x 5 = 1.05 tonnef /em?

(100)?

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 293 ---
272 Basic ship theory

The value of o3 the membrane tension, is low and is having only a small effect.
Adopting small deflection theory therefore, for a yield stress of 2.5 tonnef /cm?,

6.41 (50\7 6.41 3
25=10 “t= 50 0.57
<i (7) ‘ (srs) m

On small elastic theory, plating thickness in centimetres required are

AB BC CD_ DE
0.57 0.67 0.76 0.85

Implicit in these figures is an unknown factor of safety over ‘failure’. Let us now
adopt the elasto-plastic definition of failure and choose, deliberately, a load
factor of 2.0. Referring to Fig. 7.14 for span DE,

pE 2x 14.09 x 2.09 x 107

0.94
o (2.5 x 104)?
for which
b fay\t
~ (22)*= 3.30
(=)
so that
1 (25x 104\?
=~ (—"—_) =0.53
‘33 (F x a) cm

Carrying out similar exercise for all bays,

Bay AB BC CD DE
pe 0.42 0.60 0.77 0.94

b ay\t
2 (27 5, . 95 3.
(2) 5.40 4.70 3.95 3.30

t 0.32 0.37 0.44 0.53

A corrosion margin, say 40 per cent, now needs to be added to give thicknesses
suitable for adoption. By this method, a saving has been achieved by adopting
deliberate standards which are disguised by the elastic approach. Savings do
not always occur, but the advantages of a rational method remain.

To determine the size of stiffeners, assumed constant for the full depth, elastic
analysis is probably best carried out by moment distribution. Since the deck
heights are equal at 2.5m each,

T/l 1

distribution factors for B, C and D = DiI =5

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 294 ---
Structural design and analysis 273

The fixing moments, i.e. the residuals at the ends of AB are due to a mean
uniform pressure of 6.41 tonnef /m?. Hence, with ends held encastre (Fig. 7.2)
pl?b ——-6.41(2.5)?(0.5)
12 12
Similarly, due to pressures of 9, 11.5 and 14.1 tonnef /m?

Myc = —Mcp = —2.34 tonnef/m
Mcp = —Mpc = —3.00 tonnef/m
Mor = —Mep = —3.67 tonnef/m

Mas Mpa —1.67 tonnef /m

The resultant moments at joints B, C and D are 0.67, 0.66 and 0.67 tonnefm.
Since distribution factors are 3, each member takes approximately 0.33
tonnefm at each joint. Carry-over factors are each 5 so that relaxing the
0.33 tonnef/m moment at end B of AB induces 0.17 tonnef/m moment at A.
This process is repeated for end B of BC, end C of BC, etc. The process is then
repeated until the residuals at the ends of the members at each joint are
substantially the same but of opposite sign, i.e. the joint as a whole is balanced.

This process is worked through in the table below.

mA B c D E
Distribution factors f Man Mea Msc Mca Mcp Mpc Mpg Mep

1 1 1 1

2 3 2 3 2 2

7

Fixing moments 2!” -1.67 41.67 -234 +4234 —3.00 +300 —3.67 43.67
Distribute 12 0 4033 +4033 +0.33 +033 40.33 +0.33 0
Carry over (all factors }) +0.17 0 40.17 4017 40.17 40.17 0 40.17
Distribute 0 0.08 0.08 —0.17 —0.17 0.08 —0.08 0
Carry over 0.04 0 0.08 —0.04 0.04 —0.08 0 0.04
Totals —154 +192 —200 +4263 —2.71 +334 —342 43.80
Distribute 0 40.04 +4004 +0.04 40.04 +0.04 +0.04 0
Carry over 40.02 0 40.02 +002 +0.02 +0.02 0 +0.02

Totals —1.52 +1.96 —194 +4269 —2.65 +340 —3.38 +3.82

Maximum bending moment occurs in DE = 3.8 tonnef/m
For a maximum yield stress of 2.5 tonnef /cm?
I 38
yo 23* 100 = 150m?

Using a plastic method of analysis, the lowest span, which must be the critical
span, will become a mechanism when plastic hinges occur at D, E and near the
middle of this span (Fig. 7.33). Taking a load factor of 2.0, approx.

Z=

Ly pil? 7.05 x (2.5)
My =2 a x 2.0 “I )

x 2 = 3.67 tonnef/m

. ¢ 3:67 _ 3
. S=35* 100 = 150cm

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 295 ---
274 Basic ship theory

If the shape factor is taken as 1.3, Z = 115cm?. Thus, some savings occur by
adopting plastic design methods for both plating and stiffeners. Because the
loading is presumed to occur once in a lifetime, there is no reason why the smaller
figures should not be adopted, provided that there are no other criteria of design.

While the theoretical considerations should follow, generally, the elasto-
plastic and plastic methods illustrated in this example, there are other features
which need to be brought out in the design of main transverse bulkheads. It will
often be found economical to reduce scantlings of both stiffeners and plating
towards the top, where it is warranted by the reduction in loading. Continuity
of bulkhead stiffener, bottom longitudinal and deck girder is of extreme import-
ance and will often dictate stiffener spacings. In ships designed to withstand the
effects of underwater explosion, it is important to incorporate thicker plating
around the edges and to permit no piercing of this area by pipes or other stress
raisers; the passage of longitudinal girders must be carefully compensated; fillet
connections which may fail by shear must be avoided.

Finite element techniques

The displacement 6 of a simple spring subject to a pull p at one end is given by
p =ké where k is the stiffness. Alternatively, 6 = fp where fis the flexibility and
f=k".

If the forces and displacements are not in the line of the spring or structural
member but are related to a set of Cartesian coordinates, the stiffness will differ
in the three directions and, in general

Pi = kid) + Kindy
and py = ky + ky262
This pair of equations is written in the language of matrix algebra
P=Kd

P is the complete set of applied loads and d the resulting displacements. K is
called the stiffness matrix and is formed of such factors k,; which are called
member stiffness matrices (or sub-matrices). For example, examine a simple
member subject to loads py and py and moments m at each end causing
displacements dy, dy and 0.
For equilibrium,

m, +m + py,l =0 =m, +m — py!
also py, + px, =0
For elasticity,

EA ,. -

Px = Px, = (bx, — bx)

From the slope deflection analysis discussed earlier can be obtained

6EI 4EI 6El . 2EI

7z on 4 7% Tp oO” 7”

m

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 296 ---
Structural design and analysis 275

These equations may be arranged

Px, | EA 0 0 ] fox _FA 0 0 [Ox
i 1
12EI 6EI - j 12EI 6EI -
Py,| =| 0 B Zz by, | 4 0 ES OE by,
6EI 4EI Py 6EI 2EI
m | “POT ILO PT IL &
ie. p = ky + k1262
This very simple example is sufficient to show that a unit problem can be expressed
in matrix form. It also suggests that we are able to adopt the very powerful
mathematics of matrix algebra to solve structural problems which would otherwise

become impossibly complex to handle. Furthermore, computers can be quite readily
programmed to deal with matrices. A fundamental problem is concerned with the
inversion of the matrix to discover the displacements arising from applied loads, viz.

d=K"'!P

Now strains are related to displacements,
e=Bd

For plane strain for example,

€x ox
e=|o/=|> = Bd
Vey ay + Ox

and stress is related to strain,
o =De

Disa matrix of elastic constants which, for plane stress in an isotropic material is
rl oy 0
v i 0

0 0 | (1 - v)

=(l—y

L 2

There are other relationships which are valuable such as the transformation matrix
which changes reference axes. These together form the set of tools required for the
solution of structural problems using finite element techniques. This brief descrip-
tion can do little more than explain the concept and the student must examine
standard textbooks. Finite element analysis is approached broadly as follows:

(a) The structure is divided up by imaginary lines meeting at nodes, forming
finite elements which are often triangular or rectangular and plane (but may
be irregular and three-dimensional).

(5) For each element, a displacement function is derived which relates the
displacements at any point within the element to the displacements at the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 297 ---
276 Basic ship theory

nodes. From the displacements strains are found and from the strains,
stresses are derived.

(c) Forces at each node are determined equivalent to the forces along the
boundaries of the element.

(d) Displacements of elements are rendered compatible with their neighbour’s
(this is not often totally possible).

(e) The whole array of applied loads and internal forces are arranged to be in
equilibrium.

It is not within the scope of this book to describe how this analysis is carried
out. It requires a good knowledge of the shorthand of matrix algebra and draws
upon the work described in this chapter concerning various unit problems of
beams, panels, grillages and frameworks and also the concepts of relaxation
techniques and minimum strain energy.

It places in the hands of the structural analyst, a tool of enormous power and
flexibility. There is no longer any need to make the assumption of simple beam
theory for the longitudinal strength of the ship; the ship girder may now be
built up from finite elements (Fig. 7.34) and the effects of the loads applied by
sea and gravity determined. Indeed, this is now the basis for the massive suites
of computer programs available for the analysis of total ship structure. The
effects of the sea spectra are translated by strip theory into loads of varying
probability and the effects of those loadings upon a defined structure are
determined by finite element analysis. It is not yet a perfect tool. Moreover, it
is a tool of analysis and not of design which is often best initiated by cruder and
cheaper methods before embarking upon the expense of these programs.

Realistic assessment of structural elements

The division of the ship into small elements which are amenable to the types of
analysis presented earlier in this chapter remains useful as a rough check upon
more advanced methods. There is now becoming available a large stock of data

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 298 ---
Structural design and analysis 277

and analytical methods which do not have to adopt some of the simplifying
assumptions that have been necessary up to now. This is due in large measure
to the widespread use of finite element techniques and the computer programs
written for them. Experimental work has carefully sifted the important para-
meters and relevant assumptions from the unimportant, so that the data sheets
may present the solutions in realistic forms most useful to the structural
designer. Once again the designer has to rely on information derived from
computer analysis which cannot be checked readily, so that the wise will need
to fall back from time to time upon simple analysis of sample elements to give
confidence in them.

As explained in Chapter 6, the elemental behaviour of the whole ship cross
section may be integrated to provide a knowledge of the total strength. Judge-
ment remains necessary in deciding what elements should be isolated for
individual analysis. This judgement has been assisted by extensive experimenta-
tion into box girders of various configurations under end load. Figure 7.35
shows the cross section of a typical specimen.

Fig. 7.35

The wisdom of generations of ship designers has steadily evolved a structure
which:

(a) has more cross sectional area in the stiffener than in the plating;
(5) has longitudinals more closely spaced than transverses;
(c) favours quite deep longitudinals, preferably of symmetrical cross section.

Such structures tend to provide high collapse loads in compression and an
efficient use of material. What happens as the load is steadily increased is first a
buckling of the centres of panels midway between stiffeners. Shirking of load by
he panel centres throws additional load upon each longitudinal which, as load
is further increased, will finally buckle in conjunction with the strip of plate to
which it is attached. This throws all of the load upon the ‘hard’ corners which
are usually so stiff in compression that they remain straight even after plasticity
has set in. It has been found that these hard corners behave like that in
conjunction with about a half the panel of plating in each direction. Thus the
elements into which the box girder should be divided are plating panels, longi-
udinals with a strip of plating and hard corners.

Finite element analysis of these elements is able to take account of two
actors which were previously the subject of simplifying assumptions. It can
account for built-in manufacturing strains and for initial distortion. Data


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 299 ---
278 Basic ship theory

sheets or standard programs are available from software houses for a very wide
range of geometry and manufacturing assumptions to give the stress-strain (or
more correctly the load shortening curves) for many elements of structure.
These can be integrated into total cross sectional behaviour in the manner
described in Chapter 6.

By following the general principles of structural design above—i.e. close deep
longitudinals, heavy transverse frames and panels longer than they are wide
two forms of buckling behaviour can usually be avoided:

(a) Overall grillage buckling of all plating and stiffeners together; this is likely
only when plating enjoys most of the material and stiffeners are puny.

(5) Tripping of longitudinals by sideways buckling or twisting; this is likely
with stiffeners, like flat bars which have low torsional stiffness.

The remaining single stiffener/plating behaviour between transverse frames
may now be examined with varying material geometry and imperfections.

Data sheets on the behaviour of panels of plating shown in Figs 7.36 and 7.37
demonstrate firstly the wisdom of the general principles enunciated above and
secondly how sensitive to imperfections they are. With moderate initial distor-
tion and average built-in strains some 50-80 per cent of the theoretical yield of
a square panel can be achieved (Fig. 7.36). Long panels as in transversely
framed ships (Fig. 7.37) achieve only 10 per cent or so.

Data sheets for stiffened plating combinations are generally of the form
shown in Fig. 7.38. On the tension side the stress/strain relationship is taken
to be of the idealized form for ductile mild steel. In compression, the effects of
progressive buckling of flanges is clearly seen. Sometimes the element is able to
hold its load-bearing capacity as the strain is increased; in other cases the load-
bearing capacity drops off from a peak in a form called catastrophic buckling.

be.
£230
40
08
alo, 50
o6 60
10
04 80
02

Ee,

Fig. 7.36

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 300 ---
Structural design and analysis 279

t 1%

aa rr
I, Symmetric case

5/5, =09
040 | 0s
.)
a,
0-05 | Antisymmetric case
Jett
4 6
0 + —+— ——— +—
1 2 3 4
th,
Fig. 7.37

Because the finite element analysis is able to account for the separate panel
buckling the width of the associated plating may be taken to the mid panel so
that the 30 t assumption is no longer needed. Moreover, many of the elemental
data sheets now available are for several longitudinals and plating acting
together.

| Tension
1:0

04 02 ele
y

Compression

Fig. 7.38

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 301 ---
280 Basic ship theory

Fittings
CONTROL SURFACES

Control surfaces in a ship are those which, through hydrodynamic lift and drag
forces, control the motion of the ship. They include rudders, stabilizers, hydro-
planes, hydrofoils and tail fins. The forces and their effects on the ship are
discussed at length in other chapters. In this chapter, we are concerned with the
strength of the surface itself, the spindle or stock by which it is connected to
operating machinery inside the ship and the power required of that machinery.

Those control surfaces which are cantilevered from the ship’s hull are the
most easily calculable because they are not redundant structures. The lift and
drag forces for ahead or astern motions (given in Chapter 13) produce a torque
T and a bending moment M at section Z of the stock. If the polar moment of
inertia of the stock is J, the maximum shear stress is given by

D
Tmax = 57 (M? +?!

Dio.D

Fig. 7.39 Forces and moment on a control surface

Permissible maximum stresses are usually about 45 MN/m? or MPa for mild
steel and 70 MPa for best quality forged steel. At section Y of the stock, torque
required for the machinery to which the stock is subjected is augmented by the
friction of the sleeve, whence

T'=T+ Pun
2

The value of the coefficient of friction is about 0.2. The power required of the

machinery is given by 7! multiplied by the angular velocity of rotation of the

surface: for a stabilizer fin this might be as high as 20 deg/s, while for a rudder it

is, typically, 2-3 deg/s.

When there are pintle supports to the rudder, the reactions at the pintles and
sleeve depend upon the wear of the bearings that is permitted before renewal is
demanded. The effects of such wear may be assumed as given in Fig. 7.40.

Permitted bearing pressure at the sleeve which is usually about 12 mm thick is
about 10 MPa

R

TD +2) should not exceed 10 MPa

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 302 ---
Structural design and analysis 281

(a) (b) (c)
Gnomon type Bottom pintle Triple pintle

14 4 See
8 R
Pp Pp —oQ

— U —

—a
UY 5 —yYy,

Fig. 7.40 Forces assumed acting on rudders
At the pintles, classification societies take about the same bearing pressure.

2 should not exceed 40 MPa
a

The shearing stress in the steel pintle due to Q should not exceed the figures
used for the stock itself. Structure of the rudder is analysed by conventional
means, the stock continuation being regarded as a beam subject to the loads of
Fig. 7.40. Because erosion can be severe the acceptable stresses are low.

Fig. 7.41

Problems

1. A bottom longitudinal is in an area subject to an end compressive stress of
100 N/mm? and is at a still water draught of 4m. With a width of steel
plating of 28cm assumed to be fully effective, estimate the maximum stress
under the end load and a lateral load due to twice the draught. Spacing of
longitudinals is 36cm and | m (simply supported), plating thickness is 4mm
and the T bar stiffener has the following properties

flange (cm) depth (cm) c.s. area (cm?) MI (toe) (cm*) MI (N.A.) (cm*)
4 8 5.0 196.0 30.0

2. A transverse floor in a double bottom is 53cm deep and 1.6cm thick.
Adjacent floors are 3m apart and the outer bottom is 1.9cm thick and the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 303 ---
282 Basic ship theory

inner bottom is 0.8cm thick. Each floor is supported by longitudinal bulk-
heads 4 m apart and is subjected to a uniformly distributed load from the sea.
Calculate the effective modulus of section.

3. A tubular strut of length 3m external diameter 8cm cross-sectional area
16cm? and moment of inertia about a diameter 150cm* when designed for
an axial working load of 0.1 MN may be assumed to be pin-ended. It has an
initial lack of straightness in the form of a half sine wave, the maximum
(central) departure from the straight being 8mm; find (a) the ratio of the
maximum working stress to the yield stress of 270 MPa and (5) the ratio of
the working load to the load which would just cause yield (E = 209 GN/m’).

4. A square grillage is composed of six equally spaced beams of length 3.08 m,
three in each direction. The beams are fixed at their ends and are each acted
on by a uniformly distributed load of 6.67 tonnef/m throughout the length.
The central beam in each direction has a moment of inertia of 1498 cm*. The
others have the same moment of inertia which need not be that of the central
beams; what should this moment of inertia be in order that no beam shall
exert a vertical force on another? If, in fact, each of these four beams has a
moment of inertia of 749 cm‘, what is the central deflection?

5. Four girders, each 12 m long, are arranged two in each of two orthogonal direc-
tions to form a square grillage of nine equal squares. The ends of all girders are
rigidly fixed and the joints where the girders intersect are capable of transmitting
deflection and rotation. All four members are steel tubes with polar MI of 0.02 m*.

Find the deflection at an intersection when a uniformly distributed load of
2MN/m is applied along each of two parallel girders and the two other
girders are unloaded. (Modulus of rigidity is 3 of Young’s modulus.)

6. Calculate by the plastic design method, the ‘collapse’ load of a grillage in
which all members are tubes of mean diameter 203 mm, thickness 3.2mm
and of steel of yield point 247 MPa. The grillage is 9.75m x 6.40 m consist-
ing of three members 6.40m long spaced 2.44m apart in one direction,
intersecting at right angles two members 9.75m long spaced 2.13 m apart.
The ends of all members are fixed. At each joint there is an equal concen-
trated load perpendicular to the plane of the grillage. Ignore torsion.

7. Three parallel members of a grillage are each 4 m long and equally spaced 2m
apart. They are intersected by a single orthogonal girder 8 m long. All ends are
simply supported and each member has a second moment of area of 650 cm*.
Each member is subject to a uniformly distributed load of 15000 N/m. Calcu-
late the maximum deflection. Neglect torsion. E = 209 GPa.

8. A long flat panel of plating is 1016mm wide and subject to a uniform
pressure of 0.173 MPa. What thickness should it be

(a) so that it nowhere yields,
(5) to permit a membrane stress of 144MPa, E = 209GPa, o = 0.3 and
yield stress = 216 MPa

9. An alloy steel plate 1.50m x 0.72m has an initial bow due to welding of
3mm in the middle. It is 6mm thick and made of steel with a Y.P. of
248 MPa.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 304 ---
Structural design and analysis 283

What pressure would this plate withstand without causing further per-
manent set? If the plate had been considered initially flat, what pressure
would small deflection theory have given to have caused yield? What would
have been the deflection?

10. The yield stress of an alloy plate is 463 MPa and Young’s modulus is
124GPa. The plate is 1524 x 508 x 5mm thick and its edges are con-
strained against rotation. Calculate the approximate values of

(a) the pressure first to cause yield;

(5) the elasto-plastic design pressure assuming edges restrained from
inward movement;

(c) the design pressure assuming edges free to move in and a permanent set
coefficient of 0.2;

(d) the pressure which the plate could withstand without further perma-
nent set if bowed initially by 2.5mm, the edges assumed restrained.

11. A boat is supported from the cross bar of a portal frame at points 1.83m
from each end. The vertical load at each point of support is 2 tonnef. The
portal is 3.05 m high and 9.14 m long and is made of thin steel tube 203 mm
in diameter and 3.2 mm thick; the steel has a yield point of 278 MPa.

If both feet are considered encastre, find the load factor over collapse in
the plane of the portal. Ignore the effects of axial load.

Find also, by a moment distribution method, the ratio of the maximum
working stress to the yield stress.

12. When a temporary stiffener is welded diametrically across a completed ring
frame of a submarine, bad fitting and welding distortion cause a total
diametral shrinkage of 8mm.

The mean diameter of the steel ring is 6.1 m. The MI of the frame section
is 5000 cm‘ and the least section modulus of the ring is 213 cm?. What is the
greatest stress induced in the frame?

18.3m
i >|
a I
91m 9.1m
7 Z
—_——
9.1m
Fig. 7.42

13. Due to careless building, the ring frame shown in Fig. 7.42 is left unsup-
ported while being built into a ship. The deck beam is a 203 mm. T bar of

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 305 ---
284 Basic ship theory

mass 14.9kg/m run with an MI of 1415cm‘, while the ribs are 152mm.
T bars of 11.9kg/m run with an MI of 708 cm*. Members are straight and
the ribs rigidly attached to the double bottom. The neutral axes of section
for the deck beams and ribs are respectively 152mm and 114mm from
the toe.

Assuming that the frame does not buckle out of its plane, find the
maximum stress due to its own weight.

14. Light alloy superstructure above the strength deck of a frigate may be
treated as a symmetrical two-dimensional single storey portal as shown.
The MI of AD, AE and DH is 5,000 cm‘ and of BF and CG is 2330cm‘.
All joints are rigid except F and G where the elasticity of the deck causes
carry-over factors of ; from B to C. Find the bending moment distribution
in the structure when a load of 19,200 N/m is carried evenly along AD.

10m

al 8
2
25m "
E F

Fig. 7.43

°
10

15. The structure of a catapult trough is essentially of the shape shown. G and
H are fixed rigidly but the rotary stiffnesses of A and F are such as to allow
one-half of the slope which would occur were they to be pinned.

The mid-point of CD is subjected to a vertical force of 122 tonnef as shown.

122 tonnef

Fig. 7.44

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 306 ---
16.

17.

18.

Structural design and analysis 285

Calculate the distribution of bending moment in the structure both by
moment distribution and slope deflection analysis,

Members AB, EF BC,ED CG,DH CD
Length (m) 0.91 0.61 1.83 1.22
T(cm*) 7491 5827 2497 6660

Calculate the collapse load of a rectangular portal having 3m stanchions
and a 8m cross bar all made of tubes 20cm in diameter, 3mm thick and
having a yield stress of 250 MPa.

The lower feet are pinned and the upper corners rigid. Equal loads are
applied horizontally inwards at the middle of each stanchion and vertically
downwards at the middle of the crossbar. (Neglect the effect of end com-
pression on the plastic moment of resistance.)

The balanced rudder shown (Fig. 7.45) has a maximum turning angle of 35
degrees and is fitted immediately behind a single propeller. What torque and
bending moment are applied to the rudder stock at the lower end of the
sleeve bearing when the rudder is put fully over at a ship’s speed of 26 knots?
In the force equation, take the constant k = 0.100. Also if the length of
an elemental strip of the rudder surface, drawn at right angles to the centre
ine of the stock is /, then assume the centre of pressure of the strip to be
0.32/ from the leading edge.

Limiting the shear stress to 69.5 MPa, what should be the diameter of the
stock, if solid, of the previous question? If the coefficient of friction at the
sleeve is 0.20 and the rate of turn at 35 degrees is 3 degrees per second, what
power is required of the steering gear?

Ale.

3.66m

Fig. 7.45

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 307 ---
8 Launching and docking

Few who have witnessed the launch of a vessel will have failed to experience
the awesome nature of the event. The naval architect is responsible for the
safe movement from land to water for the first time of vessels sometimes of
thousands of tonnes. Predictions of the movement are vital to its safe control.
The reverse procedure, of bringing a ship into dock also requires some sound
practical knowledge assisted by theory.

Launching

A ship is best built under cover for protection from the elements leading to
better quality and less disruption of schedules. Because of the capital costs it
was not until the 1970s that covered slipways became fairly common. Partly
to offset these costs a conveyor belt method of construction was pioneered in
Scandinavia. The ship is built section by section and gradually pushed from the
building hall into the open. A dry dock can be used and flooded up when the
ship is sufficiently far advanced. A dry dock is too valuable a capital asset to
be so long engaged and the method is generally confined to very large vessels
where normal launching presents special difficulties. Occasionally, slipways are
partially or wholly below high water level and the site is kept dry by doors
which, on launch day are opened to let the water in and provide some buoyancy to
the hull. More often, the hull is constructed wholly above water and slid into the
water when ready. Very small hulls may be built on a cradle which is lowered on
wheels down a ramp into the water, but ships over about 100 tonnef displacement
must be slid on greased ways under the action of gravity.

Usually, the ship slides stern first into the water because this part of the ship
is more buoyant, but bow first launches are not unknown. The theory presently
described is applicable to both. Less often, the ship is slid or tipped sideways
into the water and the considerations are then rather different.

In a well ordered, stern first launch, sliding ways are built around the ship,
and shortly before the launch the gap separating them from the fixed ground-
ways is filled by a layer of grease to which the weight of the ship is transferred
from the building blocks.

There may be one, two or even four ways; generally, there are two although
in Holland one way with propping ways at the sides are common. The ways
are inclined and, often, cambered. Movement is prevented until the desired
moment by triggers which are then knocked away to allow the ship to move
under gravity down the inclined ways. After it begins to enter the water, buoy-
ancy builds up at the stern until it reaches a value sufficient to pivot the entire
ship about the fore poppet (i.e. the forward end of the launching cradle). The

286

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 308 ---
Launching and docking 287

ship continues down the ways until it is floating freely having slid away from,
or dropped off the end of, the ways. If launched in a restricted waterway, its
progress into the water is impeded by drags which are arranged so as gradually
to bring the vessel to a stop before it strikes the far bank.

Slope and camber
exaggerated

Fig. 8.1 A stern first launch

Consider what might go wrong with this procedure. The grease might be too
slippery or not slippery enough. It might be squeezed out by the pressure.
Instead of the stern lifting, the ship might tip the wrong way about the end of
the groundways and plunge. The forefoot might be damaged by dropping off
the end of the ways or it may dig into the slip when the stern has lifted. The ship
might be insufficiently strong locally or longitudinally or the ways may collapse.
The breaking effect of the drags might be too much or too little. The ship might,
at some instant, be unstable.

Calculations are carried out before arranging the launch to investigate each
one of these anxieties. The calculations predict the behaviour of the ship during
launch, to enable a suitable high tide to be selected and to arrange the ship and
slip to be in a proper and safe condition.

LAUNCHING CURVES

A set of six curves is prepared to predict the behaviour of the ship during
launch. They are curves, plotted against distance of travel down the slip, of

(i) Weight, W

(ii) Buoyancy, A

(iii) Moment of weight about fore poppet, Wa

(iv) Moment of buoyancy about fore poppet, Ad

(v) Moment of weight about after end of groundways, Wb
(vi) Moment of buoyancy about after end of groundways, Ac

The geometry of the ship at any position in its travel down the ways is
illustrated in Fig. 8.2 for the ways in contact. A distributed load (W — A) along
the ways is not shown; after the stern lifts this becomes concentrated all at the
fore poppet. Conventionally, the moment (v) is drawn positive when anti-
clockwise and (vi) is drawn positive when clockwise. A typical set of launching
curves is shown in Fig. 8.3.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 309 ---
288 Basic ship theory

f.poppet

Fig. 8.2 Ship and way geometry

The important features of these curves are as follows:

(a) at the point at which the moment of buoyancy about the fore poppet equals
the moment of weight about the fore poppet, the stern lifts;

(5) the difference between the weight and buoyancy curves at the position of
stern lift, is the maximum force on the fore poppet;

(c) the curve of moment of buoyancy about the after end of the ways must lie
wholly above the curve of moment of weight; the least distance between the
two curves of moment about the after end of ways, gives the least moment
against tipping about the end of ways;

(d) crossing of the weight and buoyancy curves before the after end of ways,
indicates that the fore poppet will not drop off the end of the ways.

These curves answer some of the anxieties about the launch directly, but certain
other investigations are necessary. From the difference between the weight and

Moment of weight about f.p.

Maximum
force on f.p.

Ship Stern cG Travel
Fully Lifts Over a
Waterborne AEW

Fig. 8.3 Typical launching curves

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 310 ---
Launching and docking 289

buoyancy curves before stern lift, the grease pressures can be determined. This
difference at stern lift (and for large vessels, it could well exceed 10,000 tonnef)
giving the maximum force on the fore poppet, enables the poppet and internal
strengthening of the ship to be devised; it also causes a loss of stability. From
all of these features is judged the adequacy of the height of tide and the length
of ways. Indeed, curves are usually constructed for more than one height
of water to determine the minimum acceptable height. How are the curves
constructed?

CONSTRUCTION OF LAUNCHING CURVES

The curve of weight results usually from the weights weighted into the ship plus an
estimate of what remains to be built in during the period between calculation and
launch. Centre of gravity position is similarly estimated and the two moment
of weight curves produced.

Buoyancy and centre of buoyancy at any position of travel is determined by
placing the relevant waterline over a profile of the ship with Bonjean curves
drawn on and integrating in the usual fashion. For this calculation, dynamic
considerations are ignored and the ship is assumed to travel very slowly. While
the correct waterline can be determined by sliding a tracing of the ship over a
drawing of the slip, it is more accurately found from the geometry of the
situation. Let

a = the initial slope of the keel

L = length between perpendiculars

e = distance of the fore poppet abaft the FP

h = initial height of the fore poppet above water
G = declivity of groundways, i.e. slope of chord
f = camber of ways of length K

r = radius of camber

t = distance abaft the fore poppet

Sea level

Fig. 8.4

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 311 ---
290 Basic ship theory

From simple mensuration, the camber of an arc of a circle is given by

_K \ _ (K= 2x)
f= Be that (f—y)= er
K = 2x) =)
ny _ (K = 2x) x (K — x)
8r 8r 2r

After travelling a distance x, the fore poppet is raised y above the chord and the
keel has moved through an angle x/r. The height of the fore poppet above the
water is now therefore, approximately

>. x
h—Bxty=h—Bx+ > (K Xx),

while the height above water of a point ¢ abaft the fore poppet is

h— Bx 4 y-t(a : *) h— Bx 4 = (K-x) i(a + *)

r r

If there is no camber, r is, of course, infinite.

If, in this expression ¢ is put equal to —e, it will give the height of the keel at
the FP above water or, when it is negative, below water, i.e. the draught at the
FP. If ¢ is put equal to L — e, the expression gives the negative draught at the
AP. Thus, for a given travel down the ways x, a waterline can be drawn
accurately on the Bonjean profile from which buoyancy and centre of buoyancy
can be determined.

This is satisfactory when the ways are fully in contact, but after stern lift,
while the draught at the fore poppet can be determined in this way, trim cannot.
Now at all times after stern lift the moments of weight and buoyancy about the
fore poppet must be equal. For the position of travel under consideration, the
fore poppet draught is found as already described; buoyancy and moment of
buoyancy are then calculated for several trims about the fore poppet and a
curve plotted as shown in Fig. 8.5. Where the curves of moment about fore
poppet cut, there is the correct trim; buoyancy can be read off and the position
of centre of buoyancy calculated. Having determined the correct trim, the
passage of the forefoot to assess the clearance from the slip can be drawn.

Moment of weight about FP

Correct
trim

|
7

a TO 0
1% 2% 3% 4% 5%
Trim

Fig. 8.5 Determination of correct trim after stern lift

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 312 ---
Launching and docking 291

If the launching curves indicate that the fore poppet will drop off the ways,
adequate depth of water must be allowed under the forefoot for the momentum
of the drop to prevent damage to the forefoot. What is adequate will depend on
the amount of the excess of weight over buoyancy, the inertia of the ship and
the damping effects of the water; it is best determined from an examination of
previous launches.

GROUNDWAYS

Typically, the declivity of the groundways is | in 20 and the camber a half a
metre in a groundway length of 300 m from fore poppet to after end. The radius
corresponding to this camber is 22,500m. Originally, camber was probably
meant to offset the sinkage of the slip as the ship’s weight grew. It has another
important effect in rotating the ship to dip the stern deeply into the water; this
increases the buoyancy force and causes an earlier stern lift than would be the
case without camber. This increases the moment against tipping but also
increases the load on the fore poppet.

The total load on the groundways is the difference between weight and
buoyancy W — A. Dividing by the length in contact gives a mean load per unit
length and this, divided by the width of ways gives a mean pressure. The
maximum total load on the ways is the initial one, W, and experience has
shown that the mean pressure associated with this load should not, for many
greases, exceed about 27 tonnef /m* or the grease tends to get squeezed out.
Both the ship, which has an uneven weight distribution, and the ways are elastic
and they are separated by grease; what is the true distribution of pressure along
the length has never been measured. Ignoring the moment causing the small
angular acceleration of the ship due to camber, it is known that, before stern
lift (Fig. 8.2),

(a) W — A = total load on ways,
(b) Wa — Ad = moment of way load about fore poppet.

Some appreciation of the load distribution at any instant can be obtained by
assuming that the distribution is linear, i.e. that the curve of load per unit length
p’ against length is a trapezoid. If the length of ways remaining in contact is / at
any instant and the loads per unit length at the fore poppet and after end of
ways are, respectively, p; and p/,, the conditions (a) and (5) become

(a) W—~A=3I( mi + Ph)

|
(b) Wa — Ad = pix + al"(, ~ Ph)
Solving these equations for p; and p’,,

W-A Wa— Ad
pp=at So Ht ae

Wa-Ad ,W-A
Mh = 6


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 313 ---
292 Basic ship theory

This is a satisfactory solution while p} and p’, are positive, and the load per unit
length can be represented by a trapezium. When (Wa-— Ad)/(W — A) is
greater than 3/, p; becomes negative and when (Wa — Ad)/(W — A) is less
than 31, PD, becomes negative. There cannot be a negative load so for these
conditions, the trapezoidal presumption is not permissible. It is assumed,
instead, that the distribution is triangular whence, for

Wa-Ad 2) oy pl = 2(w — Ay
W-A 3 Pa 30W — A) —3(Wa — Ad)
and for
Wa-Ad 1 ,_ WAY
Wea <3! hem P= 3s Ad)
> MAE > GL
——P I 3 SEER
we "8
| r
|
| Wo-Ad <
i" | WHE < $l z
i
wd

Fig. 8.6 Assumed load distribution

It is now possible to plot the maximum loads or pressures against travel down
the slip (Fig. 8.7). Permissible grease pressures vary with grease, temperature
and past experience. 55 tonnef /m* is typical but figures of 100 or 150 are not
unknown. The calculation helps determine poppet strength and where internal
shoring is needed.

Apart from the assumption of linear variation in pressure the above method
of calculation assumes the ship and slipway to be rigid. It has been suggested

Force per
Unit Area

Travel

Fig. 8.7 End pressures

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 314 ---
Launching and docking 293

that the simple method predicts way end pressures which are unrealistically low
and a more rigorous treatment allowing for ship elasticity, flexibility of the
ways and the effects of bottom panel deflection may be wise. Pressures may be
reduced by champfering the ends of the ways and may be physically limited by
using deformable packing or collapsible cushions.

THE DYNAMICS OF LAUNCHING

The force accelerating the ship down the groundways is, at any instant,
approximately

(W — A)@ — way friction — water resistance — drag forces

@ is the slope of the ways at the centre of gravity of the ship. Way friction is
p(W — A); the coefficient of friction jz is usually less than 0.02, although at the
commencement it can be slightly higher and tests should be conducted to
establish the figures for the particular lubricant over a range of temperatures.
Water resistance is due to the hull friction, the creation of the stern wave and to
the resistance of locked propellers, water brakes or masks, etc., where fitted;
this resistance is expressed by KA?/3 V2 where V is the velocity of travel and K
is a constant determined from similar ships with similar water braking devices.
Retarding forces due to chain drags are found to follow a frictional law, p/w
where w is the weight of the chains and /’ is 0.40-0.80 depending upon the state
of the slipway; this figure must be determined from trials or from previous
launches.

For a particular ship the effects of entrained water can be expressed as a
fraction z of the buoyancy. The equation of motion of the ship before it is
waterborne is then

(W +zA)dV
g dt

(W — A)O = p(W — A) — KA} V? = i'w = net force

This differential equation cannot, of course, be solved mathematically because
of the presence of A.

Consideration of each of the factors at intervals of travel down the slip,
however, enables a component force diagram to be built up as shown in Fig. 8.8
and a distance-time relationship estimated from it, by equating the nett force to
the mass x acceleration. After the ship has become waterborne, the first two
components of the expression become zero. Integration of each component
force-distance curve gives the work done in overcoming that resistance.
Velocity at any point of travel may therefore be checked by relating the kinetic
energy at that point to the loss of potential energy minus work done in over-
coming friction and resistance.

STRENGTH AND STABILITY

Problems of local strength occur at the keel over the after end of the ways and
at the fore poppet both for the ship and for the poppet structure. The difficulties
of containing the large forces at the fore poppet account for the increasing

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 315 ---
294 Basic ship theory

Ship at Stern
rest Waterborne lift

Force

Distance
travelled

Fig. 8.8 Forces acting during launch

number of very large oil tankers and other bulk carriers being built in dry docks
(productivity is of course high).

At the instant of stern lift, the hull girder undergoes a maximum sagging
bending moment, the longitudinal strain from which in some large ships has
been measured to give stresses of 90 MN/m?. The bending strain is easily found
from the data already compiled to ensure a safe launch but strain measured in
practice is usually somewhat below this, due probably to the effects of water
resistance. Breakage, that is the longitudinal bending of the ship, is usually
measured.

Stability is also at a minimum at the instant of stern lift due to the large fore
poppet load at the keel. The GM is calculated by the methods described in
Chapter 5 both for the ship with the concentrated load at the keel and fully
afloat. While instability with the ship supported each side by the ways is
unlikely, no naval architect would permit a ship to be launched with a negative
virtual GM at the instant of stern lift. Any sudden sinking of the ways, for
example, could be increased by an unstable ship. Ballasting is, in any case, often
carried out to increase the longitudinal moment against tipping and presents no
difficulty if needed for stability purposes.

SIDEWAYS LAUNCHING

When the ship is small or waterfront space is not at a great premium, ships may
be built on an even keel broadside on to the water and consigned to the water
sideways. There are three common methods of sideways launching:

(a) the ship slides down ways which are built well down under the water;

(5) the ship tips or drops off the end of the ways into the water, sometimes
tipping a part of the ways too;

(c) the ship is built on piles which are made to collapse by a sideways push to
allow the ship to fall into the water.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 316 ---
Launching and docking 295

Fig. 8.9 Sideways launching

In all of these methods the ship takes to the water violently and may roll
heavily—on entry, the ship may roll thirty degrees or more. Stability at large
angles and watertightness are therefore important considerations. Waves may
cause damage on adjacent shores.

Conventional calculations are not performed. Declivity of ways is usually of
the order of | in 8 in order to give a high speed of launch to clear the end of the
ways. Grease pressures permitted, 0.25 to 0.30 MN/m’, are somewhat higher
than with end launch.

Docking

From time to time, attention is needed to the outer bottom of a ship either for
regular maintenance or to effect repairs. Access to the bottom may be obtained by
careening, by hauling up a slipway or by placing in a dock from which the water
is removed. There are limitations to what work can be done by careening, while
the magnitude of the machinery needed to haul a ship up a slipway is such that
this procedure is confined to ships up to a few hundred tonnef in displacement.
It has become common practice in some countries to build large vessels
totally in a drydock and to allow the water to enter when the hull is in a
satisfactory state. This undocking procedure must be investigated in a manner
similar to that for normal docking or undocking to ensure that forces at the
keel do not cause instability to the ship or that they do not trip the blocks.
These matters are investigated in advance while evidence that affairs are what
they should be is rigorously observed during the procedure by the dockmaster.
This chapter is concerned with theory which assists such successful operations
and some design features of floating docks. Features of principal concern are

(a) load distribution between dock and ship;
(6) behaviour of blocks;

(c) strength of floating docks;

(d) stability.

This list by no means exhausts the problems associated with docking and
constructing docks, which include design of caissons and pumping systems and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 317 ---
296 Basic ship theory

the whole field of difficulties facing civil engineers in the construction of graving
docks. It does, however, embrace the major concerns of the practising naval
architect. Basically, docking is the placing of an elastic ship with an uneven
weight distribution on to an elastic set of blocks supported in turn by an elastic
floating dock or a relatively rigid graving dock. Blocks will not be of an even
height and are subject to crush, creep and instability. In many aspects of ship
design, the criteria of design are based on misuse or accident; with floating
docks, there is little scope for permitting maloperation because if this were a
major criterion of design, the lifting capacity of the dock would be unduly
penalized.

LOAD DISTRIBUTION

Theoretical analyses are available to study the behaviour of a ship in a floating
dock to produce with some rigour the longitudinal distribution of loading on the
blocks. A simplified procedure has often been found adequate as follows.

It is assumed that the load distribution along the blocks follows the weight
distribution of the ship except at the after cut up and at any other gap in the
blocks. Forward of the after cut up, the weight distribution is assumed aug-
mented by the weight abaft the cut up spread over a length equal to twice the
length of the overhang, and distributed according to a parabolic law such that
the moment of weight is the same as the moment of overhang about the cut up.
If the weight and moment of the overhang about the cut up are respectively W
and M, the augment in load per unit length at the cut up, a, is

Gao
~ 16M

ACU

a

Fig. 8.10 Load distribution in dock

In a floating dock, the load distribution is further affected by the buoyancy
distribution along the dock which is under the control of the dockmaster. For
a given buoyancy distribution, the loading in the past has been determined by
a method similar to the longitudinal strength calculation for a ship. The differ-
ence between the total buoyancy and ship’s weight plus weight of dock and
contained water gives the net loading. As explained in Chapter 6, shearing force

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 318 ---
Launching and docking 297

on a girder is obtained by integrating the net loading, and bending moment is
obtained by integrating the shearing force along the length. In the case of the
docked ship, the loading and the subsequent integrations apply to the com-
bined ship and dock. Difficulty arises in trying to separate the two because their
interaction is not known. In the past, bending moment has been divided up
in the ratio of their respective second moments of area of section. This is not
satisfactory and comprehensive analysis is needed.

Floating docks are classified by their lifting capacity. Lifting capacity is
the buoyancy available when the dock is floating at its working freeboard.
Working freeboard is often 0.15 m at the pontoon deck. Buoyancy available
arises from the tanks which can be emptied to provide lift to the dock without
undue strain.

BLOCK BEHAVIOUR

Depending as it does on defects, age, grain, moisture content and surface
condition, it is not surprising to find wide variation in the behaviour of a stack
of wooden dock blocks, as experiments have shown. Provided that the blocks
are cribbed to prevent instability, it is common practice not to permit block
pressures in excess of 440 tonnef /m?, although the ultimate load intensity of
a stack of English oak blocks may be as high as 1090 tonnef /m’.

Experiments have shown that the crippling pressure for a stack of blocks h
high and a in width is given approximately by

re re
p= 11(40 - =) tonnef /m? = 1.07(40 - =) x 105 N/m?

where p is the load divided by the total plan area of a stack of blocks,
irrespective of the half siding of keel. The formula is suitable for English
oak and is obviously an approximation. A 2m stack of 40cm blocks has a
crippling load of 165 tonnef /m°. In practice, 2m stacks are rare and pressures
in excess of 220 tonnef /m? for a single uncribbed stack are not permitted. It is
normal good practice to crib a certain number of blocks, which increases the
crippling load as well as preventing tripping due to the trim of the docking
ships.
The importance of exact alignment of blocks cannot be over-emphasized.
Measurements of the loads in dock blocks have shown that a stack will take
many times the load of its neighbour by being only a little higher. A lack of fit
of 12mm between adjacent blocks is not unusual at present and is responsible
for wild variation in dock block loading. It is responsible, too, for the depar-
tures of the block loading curve from the ship’s weight distribution in graving
docks.

Great care is needed to ensure that blocks are all of even stiffness. The
number of blocks to ensure a mean deflection of stacks of x is

2 x ship’s weight

Number of blocks = <x block stiffness

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 319 ---
298 Basic ship theory

For a mean deflection of 1cm on blocks with a stiffness of 20 tonnef /cm, the
minimum number of blocks required is W/10tonnef. Clearly, this limitation is
impractical for ships over about 2000 tonnef in displacement and, in general,
the larger the ship, the closer the blocks are together and side blocks intro-
duced.

STRENGTH OF FLOATING DOCKS

It is clear even from a cursory examination, that a dockmaster can place severe
strains on a dock by a thoughtless selection of buoyancy tanks. In the trans-
verse direction, if the dockmaster first selects the buoyancy tanks in the dock
walls to begin raising the dock, a couple will be applied to the dock as shown
in Fig. 8.11 which could cause damage. Similarly, in the longitudinal direction, if
a ship has much weight amidships, the use of the buoyancy tanks at the ends
of the dock could break it in two. It is good practice to select those buoyancy
tanks immediately beneath the heaviest weights. Dock behaviour longitudin-
ally, if the dock is made of steel, is checked continuously during lift by meas-
uring the breakage. A strict limit to breakage is placed by the naval architect
in the instructions for use of the dock. Reinforced concrete docks do not
suffer much elastic distortion and breakage is not used as a measure of behaviour;
instead, strict pumping patterns are imposed.

Fig. 8.11 Strains imposed by maloperation

Analysis of the strength of a floating dock was too difficult before computers
had been satisfactorily programmed. Analyses now treat the dock bottom as a
grillage simply supported at its edges by the two dock walls. The lumped
weights of the docked vehicle are assumed supported by three rows of blocks
constituted of stacks with a declared lack of fit. The problem is then analysed as
an unevenly loaded beam on an elastic foundation for which programs are
available.

The solution is equally applicable to graving docks by applying very high
figures to the dock rigidity. Standard comparative longitudinal strength calcu-
lations to cater for transit conditions are also performed on the floating dock
structure itself as described for the ship in Chapter 6.

The conventional floating dock is capable of taking very large vessels. A
concrete floating dock may be capable of lifting a 350,000 dwt ship and a steel
one of 400,000 dwt capacity.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 320 ---
Launching and docking 299

STABILITY DURING DOCKING

Loss of stability due to grounding or docking has been discussed fully in
Chapter 5. Calculation of this loss is a standard procedure before every docking,
since a list developing before the ship is in contact with the blocks completely
along the keel can be extremely dangerous and can dislodge the blocks.

A floating dock is trimmed approximately to the trim of the ship and large
suing forces before the keel takes the blocks are thereby avoided. There is a
critical stability condition when the ship is just clear of the water and the
restoring waterplane for both ship and dock is provided only by the dock walls.
In this condition, the dock designers normally demand a minimum GM of
1.6m. When the pontoon is lifted clear, the waterplane is, of course, much
larger. Free surface effects in a floating dock are also large.

Large angle stability is important not only for ocean transit conditions but
for the careening which is necessary during maintenance and repair operations.

SHIPLIFTS

Shiplifts can be used for launching or docking or building but the usual
application is for docking. In a typical arrangement a vessel is floated above
a cradle on a platform which can be raised to bring the cradle and ship to
normal ground level. There is a system of rails which can then traverse the
vessel sideways until it is in line with a shed into which it can be moved. In this
way one lift can serve a number of docking sheds. Clearly care must be taken to
avoid straining the ship or the platform during the lifting operation. There area
number of hydraulic hoisting points along the length of the platform and these
can be fitted with load measuring devices to assist the operator, the data being
ed into a computer to calculate load distribution and so assess trim, heel and
draught before lowering into the water.

Platform elevator systems which lift vessels from the water and transfer them
o the shore can take vessels of up to 25,000 tonnef. In other devices the vessel
is floated over a cradle and both are winched up an inclined slipway. Often
a transfer system is provided so that a single lift system can serve a number
of refitting bays. Shiplifts are claimed to be significantly more economical than
he corresponding floating dock system.

Problems

. A vessel whose launching weight is 25 MN with CG 5 m abaft amidships has
the fore poppet positioned 50m forward of amidships. Find the force on the
fore poppet and the travel when the stern lifts from the following data:

Travel down slip, m 50 60 70 80 90
Buoyancy, MN 10.1 12.3 15.3 19.4 24.6
CB abaft amidships, m 47 40 33 26 19

Sliding ways 70cm wide each side are proposed, with a length of 95m.
What is the mean pressure on the lubricant before motion takes place?

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 321 ---
300 Basic ship theory

2. In a certain ship, the length of sliding ways was 163m and the breadth
1.63 m. The launching weight was 9755 tonnef and c.g. estimated at 75.50m
forward of the after end of the sliding ways. Calculate the mean load per
square metre on the ways. Assuming the pressure to vary in a linear manner
from forward to the after end of ways, what is the pressure at each end?

3. A ship of length 152 m between perpendiculars is built on a slip with its keel
at a slope of 2.98 degrees. It is launched on groundways which extend to the
fore poppet only and have a camber of 0.61 m over their length of 183 m and
a slope of 3.58 degrees. If the underside of keel produced at the fore perpen-
dicular is initially 5.5 m above water level and the fore poppet is 18.3 m aft of
the fore perpendicular, what are the draughts at the fore perpendicular and
at the after perpendicular when the ship has travelled 61m down the slip?

4. A ship is launched from ways 219m long, with a camber of 457mm and a
declivity of 2.69 degrees. The slope of the keel is 2.46 degrees. If the mini-
mum height of stopping up is 762mm, find the height of the fore poppet
above the after end of the ways when the ship has travelled 61m down the
ways. Assume the fore poppet initially at the fore end of ways.

5. Construct a set of launching curves from the following information:

launching weight 5230 tonne!
CG abaft midships 7m
fore poppet before midships 69m

after end of groundways from c.g. at rest 100m

Travel down slip (m) 30 «660 75 90 105 120-135

Buoyancy (tonnef)
before stern lift 830 1960 2600 3350 4280 5600
after stern lift 4050 4700 5550

Moment of buoyancy about fp before stern lift 132 219 282 356 450 585
(1000 tonnef m)

Moment of buoyancy about AEGW 42 76 160 316
(1000 tonnef m)

(a) When does the stern lift?

(6) What is the maximum force at the fore poppet?
(c) What is the minimum moment against tipping?
(d) How does the ship leave the ways?

6. A ship weighs 28,500 tonnef at launch. The fore poppet is 72m before the
CG of the ship. The after end of the groundways is 155m from the CG
before the ship moves. The following table gives the data derived for the
passage of the ship in full contact with the ways:

Travel, m 120 135 150 157.5 165
Buoyancy, tonnef 9000 15,600 24,400 29,200 35,000
CB abaft AEGW, m 7.5 21.5 28.0 33.0

Deduce a set of launching curves and pick off the important data.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 322 ---
Launching and docking 301

7. A floating dock of rectangular bottom shape, 122m long and 27.4m wide
floats, when empty, at a draught of 1.07m. It is used to dock a ship of
3658 tonnef displacement, 110m long, which is symmetrically placed in the
dock. The weight distribution of the ship is symmetrical about amidships
and has the values shown in the table below:

Distance from 0 6 12 18 24 #30 36 42 48 54
midships, m

Section from midships 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

Weight per section, 294 289 276 256 228 194 152 103 38
tonnef

Draw the curves of load, shearing force and bending moment for the dock
and ship combination, in still water of 0.975 m3/tonnef.
The weight of the dock may be assumed equally distributed along its length.

8. A vessel has a launching weight of 5893 tonnef, the CG being 7.9 m abaft the
mid-length and the fore poppet 70m before the mid-length. Construct a
launching diagram from the following data:

Mid-length abaft AEGW,m 0 6 12 18 24
Buoyancy, tonnef 2601 3241 3901 4602 5415
CB abaft AEGW, m 39.9 43.6 48.2 52.7 56.4
State:

(a) distance of mid-length abaft the after end of groundways when the stern
lifts;

(5) force on fore poppets when the stern lifts;

(c) reserve moment against tipping.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 323 ---
9 The ship environment
and human factors

The naval architect, like the designer of any successful engineering product,
must know the conditions under which the equipment is to exist and operate for
its full life cycle, the attributes of those who will operate and maintain it and
how those attributes vary with changing environment.
For convenience the environment can be divided into:

(a) the environment external to the ship which affects the ship as a whole and
all exposed equipment. These conditions are caused by the sea and climate.
Also the ship performance can be influenced by the depth or width of water
present;

(6) the internal environment which affects the personnel and the internal
equipment. To some extent, this environment is controllable, e.g. the tem-
perature and humidity can be controlled by means of an air conditioning
system.

(c) the interface between the human and machine and the effect of the envir-
onment on the human being.

The human element is covered by what is termed Human Factors (HF); a full
study of which involves multi-discipline teams of physiologists, psychologists,
engineers and scientists. The HF team can advise the naval architect on:

(i) how to design a system or equipment so that the operator can most
effectively play a proper part, so giving the greatest overall system
efficiency. It is not necessarily, and in general is not, true that the
maximum degree of automation is desirable. The blend of human
and machine should build up the strengths of each and minimize the
weaknesses;

(ii) in what way, and to what degree, the system efficiency will be reduced
due to degradations in the person’s performance due to the environ-
ment;

(iii) the levels of environmental parameters (e.g. noise, vibration) which should
not be exceeded if a person’s physical state is not to be temporarily or
permanently harmed.

Clearly there is an interaction between (i) and (ii) above in that the initial
design must allow for the likely in-service environment.

302

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 324 ---
The ship environment and human factors 303

The external environment. The sea
WATER PROPERTIES

Certain physical properties of the sea are of considerable importance to the
designer. They are:

(a) Density. The density of the water in which the ship floats affects her draught
and trim (Chapter 3) and depends mainly upon the temperature and
salinity. The standard values of density of fresh and salt water at various
temperatures are given in Tables 9.1 and 9.2.

(b) Kinematic viscosity. This is particularly relevant to the frictional resistance
experienced by a ship as it defines the Reynolds’ number (Chapter 10). The
standard values of the kinematic viscosity of fresh and salt water at various
temperatures are given in Tables 9.3 and 9.4.

Table 9.1
Mass densities for fresh water (last decimal figure
is doubtful)

°C p °C p °C p
0 999.79 10 999.59 20 998.12
1 999.79 ll 999.49 21 997.92
2 999.89 12 999.40 22 997.72
3 999.89 13 999.30 23 997.43
4 999.89 14 999.10 24 997.24
5 999.89 15 999.00 25 996.94
6 999.89 16 998.91 26 996.75
7 999.79 17 998.71 27 996.45
8 999.79 18 998.51 28 996.16
9 999.69 19 998.32 29 995.87

30 995.57

Metric units; p in kg/m?

Table 9.2
Mass densities for salt water (salinity 3.5 per cent)
(last decimal figure is doubtful)

°C p °C p °C p
0 1028.03 10 1026.85 20 1024.70
1 1027.93 ll 1026.66 21 1024.40
2 1027.83 12 1026.56 22 1024.11
3 1027.83 13 1026.27 23 1023.81
4 1027.74 14 1026.07 24 1023.52
5 1027.64 15 1025.87 25 1023.23
6 1027.44 16 1025.68 26 1022.93
7 1027.34 17 1025.38 27 1022.64
8 1027.15 18 1025.19 28 1022.25
9 1027.05 19 1024.99 29 1021.95

30 1021.66

Metric units; p in kg/m?

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 325 ---
304 Basic ship theory

Table 9.3

Values of kinematic visc

Temp. in degrees Celsius

sity for fresh water, v, in metric units of (m?s~!) x 10°.

Deg. C 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9

0 1.78667 1.78056 1.77450 1.76846 1.76246 1.75648 1.75054 1.74461 1.73871 1.73285
1 1.72701 1.72121 1.71545 1.70972 1.70403 1.69836 1.69272 1.68710 1.68151 1.67594
2 1.67040 1.66489 1.65940 1.65396 1.64855 1.64316 1.63780 1.63247 1.62717 1.62190
3 1.61665 1.61142 1.60622 1.60105 1.59591 1.59079 1.58570 1.58063 1.57558 1.57057
4 1.56557 1.56060 1.55566 1.55074 1.54585 1.54098 1.53613 1.53131 1.52651 1.52173
5 1.51698 1.51225 1.50754 1.50286 1.49820 1.49356 1.48894 1.48435 1.47978 1.47523
6 1.47070 1.46619 1.46172 1.45727 1.45285 1.44844 1.44405 1.43968 1.43533 1.43099
7 1.42667 1.42238 1.41810 1.41386 1.40964 1.40543 1.40125 1.39709 1.39294 1.38882
8 1.38471 1.38063 1.37656 1.37251 1.36848 1.36445 1.36045 1.35646 1.35249 1.34855
9 1.34463 1.34073 1.33684 1.33298 1.32913 1.32530 1.32149 1.31769 1.31391 1.31015
10 1.30641 1.30268 1.29897 1.29528 1.29160 1.28794 1.28430 1.28067 1.27706 1.27346
11 1.26988 1.26632 1.26277 1.25924 1.25573 1.25223 1.24874 1.24527 1.24182 1.23838
12 1.23495 1.23154 1.22815 1.22478 1.22143 1.21809 1.21477 1.21146 1.20816 1.20487
13 1.20159 1.19832 1.19508 1.19184 1.18863 1.18543 1.18225 1.17908 1.17592 1.17278
14 1.16964 1.16651 1.16340 1.16030 1.15721 1.15414 1.15109 1.14806 1.14503 1.14202
15 1.13902 1.13603 1.13304 1.13007 1.12711 1.12417 1.12124 1.11832 1.11542 1.11254
16 1.10966 1.10680 1.10395 1.10110 1.09828 1.09546 1.09265 1.08986 1.08708 1.08431
17 1.08155 1.07880 1.07606 1.07334 1.07062 1.06792 1.06523 1.06254 1.05987 1.05721
18 1.05456 1.05193 1.04930 1.04668 1.04407 1.04148 1.03889 1.03631 1.03375 1.03119
19 1.02865 1.02611 1.02359 1.02107 1.01857 1.01607 1.01359 1.01111 1.00865 1.00619
20 1.00374 1.00131 0.99888 0.99646 0.99405 0.99165 0.98927 0.98690 0.98454 0.98218
21 0.97984 0.97750 0.97517 0.97285 0.97053 0.96822 0.96592 0.96363 0.96135 0.95908
22 0.95682 0.95456 0.95231 0.95008 0.94786 0.94565 0.94345 0.94125 0.93906 0.93688
23 0.93471 0.93255 0.93040 0.92825 0.92611 0.92397 0.92184 0.91971 0.91760 0.91549
24 0.91340 0.91132 0.90924 0.90718 0.90512 0.90306 0.90102 0.89898 0.89695 0.89493
25 0.89292 0.89090 0.88889 0.88689 0.88490 0.88291 0.88094 0.87897 0.87702 0.87507
26 0.87313 0.87119 0.86926 0.86734 0.86543 0.86352 0.86162 0.85973 0.85784 0.85596
27 0.85409 0.85222 0.85036 0.84851 0.84666 0.84482 0.84298 0.84116 0.83934 0.83752
28 0.83572 0.83391 0.83212 0.83033 0.82855 0.82677 0.82500 0.82324 0.82148 0.81973
29 0.81798 0.81625 0.81451 0.81279 0.81106 0.80935 0.80765 0.80596 0.80427 0.80258
30 0.80091 0.79923 0.79755 0.79588 0.79422 0.79256 0.79090 0.78924 0.78757 0.78592

(c) Salinity. ‘Standard’ density and kinematic viscosity have been mentioned
above. Values for actual samples of sea water will vary from area to area and
will depend, amongst other things, upon the salinity. For instance many
objects will float in the Dead Sea, which has a very high salt content, which
would sink in fresh water. For most standard calculations and tests a salinity
of 3.5 per cent is assumed.

THE SEA SURFACE

The sea presents an ever changing face to the observer. In the long term, the
surface may be in any condition from a flat calm to extreme roughness. In the
short term, the surface may present the appearance of a fairly steady level of
roughness but the actual surface shape will be continuously varying.

Any observer is aware that a stream of air passing over a water surface causes
ripples or waves to form, e.g. by blowing across the top of a cup of tea ripples

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 326 ---
The ship environment and human factors 305

Table 9.4
Values of kinematic viscosity for salt water, v, in metric units of (m?s~!) x 10°.
(Salinity 3.5 per cent.) Temp. in degrees Celsius

Deg. C 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9

1.82844 1.82237 1.81633 1.81033 1.80436 1.79842 1.79251 1.78662 1.78077 1.77494
1.76915 1.76339 1.75767 1.75199 1.74634 1.74072 1.73513 1.72956 1.72403 1.71853
1.71306 1.70761 1.70220 1.69681 1.69145 1.68612 1.68082 1.67554 1.67030 1.66508
1.65988 1.65472 1.64958 1.64446 1.63938 1.63432 1.62928 1.62427 1.61929 1.61433
1.60940 1.60449 1.59961 1.59475 1.58992 1.58511 1.58032 1.57556 1.57082 1.56611
1.56142 1.55676 1.55213 1.54752 1.54294 1.53838 1.53383 1.52930 1.52479 1.52030
1.51584 1.51139 1.50698 1.50259 1.49823 1.49388 1.48956 1.48525 1.48095 1.47667
1.47242 1.46818 1.46397 1.45978 1.45562 1.45147 1.44735 1.44325 1.43916 1.43508
1.43102 1.42698 1.42296 1.41895 1.41498 1.41102 1.40709 1.40317 1.39927 1.39539
1.39152 1.38767 1.38385 1.38003 1.37624 1.37246 1.36870 1.36496 1.36123 1.35752
10 1.35383 1.35014 1.34647 1.34281 1.33917 1.33555 1.33195 1.32837 1.32481 1.32126
11 1.31773 1.31421 1.31071 1.30722 1.30375 1.30030 1.29685 1.29343 1.29002 1.28662
12 1.28324 1.27987 1.27652 1.27319 1.26988 1.26658 1.26330 1.26003 1.25677 1.25352
13 1.25028 1.24705 1.24384 1.24064 1.23745 1.23428 1.23112 1.22798 1.22484 1.22172
14 1.21862 1.21552 1.21244 1.20938 1.20632 1.20328 1.20027 1.19726 1.19426 1.19128
15 1.18831 1.18534 1.18239 1.17944 1.17651 1.17359 1.17068 1.16778 1.16490 1.16202
16 1.15916 1.15631 1.15348 1.15066 1.14786 1.14506 1.14228 1.13951 1.13674 1.13399
17 1.13125 1.12852 1.12581 1.12309 1.12038 1.11769 1.11500 1.11232 1.10966 1.10702
18 1.10438 1.10176 1.09914 1.09654 1.09394 1.09135 1.08876 1.08619 1.08363 1.08107
19 1.07854 1.07601 1.07350 1.07099 1.06850 1.06601 1.06353 1.06106 1.05861 1.05616
20 1.05372 1.05129 1.04886 1.04645 1.04405 1.04165 1.03927 1.03689 1.03452 1.03216
21 1.02981 1.02747 1.02514 1.02281 1.02050 1.01819 1.01589 1.01360 1.01132 1.00904
22 1.00678 1.00452 1.00227 1.00003 0.99780 0.99557 0.99336 0.99115 0.98895 0.98676
23 0.98457 0.98239 0.98023 0.97806 0.97591 0.97376 0.97163 0.96950 0.96737 0.96526
24 0.96315 0.96105 0.95896 0.95687 0.95479 0.95272 0.95067 0.94862 0.94658 0.94455
25 0.94252 0.94049 0.93847 0.93646 0.93445 0.93245 0.93046 0.92847 0.92649 0.92452
26 0.92255 0.92059 0.91865 0.91671 0.91478 0.91286 0.91094 0.90903 0.90711 0.90521
27 0.90331 0.90141 0.89953 0.89765 0.89579 0.89393 0.89207 0.89023 0.88838 0.88654
28 0.88470 0.88287 0.88105 0.87923 0.87742 0.87562 0.87383 0.87205 0.87027 0.86849
29 0.86671 0.86494 0.86318 0.86142 0.85966 0.85792 0.85619 0.85446 0.85274 0.85102
30 0.84931 0.84759 0.84588 0.84418 0.84248 0.84079 0.83910 0.83739 0.83570 0.83400

CHOIDNARWNH OS

are formed. The precise mechanism by which the transfer of energy takes place
is not known. Nor is the minimum velocity of air necessary to generate waves
known accurately and figures between 0.6 and 6m/s have been suggested by
various workers in this field.

The surface, then, is disturbed by the wind, the extent of the disturbance
depending upon the strength of the wind, the time for which it acts and the
length of the water surface over which it acts. These three qualities are referred
to as the strength, duration and fetch of the wind, respectively. The disturbance
also depends on tide, depth of water and local land contours. Wave character-
istics become practically independent of fetch when the fetch is greater than
about 500 km.

Once a wave has been generated it will move away from the position at which
it was generated until all its energy is spent. Waves generated by local winds are
termed sea and those which have travelled out of their area of generation are
termed swell. Sea waves are characterized by relatively peaky crests and the
crest length seldom exceeds some two or three times the wave-length. Swell

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 327 ---
306 Basic ship theory

waves are generally lower with more rounded tops. The crest length is typically
six or seven times the wave-length. In a swell, the variation in height between
successive waves is less than is the case for sea waves.

The sea surface presents a very confused picture which defied for many years
any attempts at mathematical definition. Developments in the theory of ran-
dom variables now make it possible to construct a mathematical model of the
sea surface.

Before proceeding to consider the irregular sea surface, it is first of all
necessary to consider a regular wave system as this is the basic building brick
from which the picture of any irregular system is built up. Such a system with
crests extending to infinity in a direction normal to the direction of propagation
of the wave has the appearance of a large sheet of corrugated iron. The section
of the wave is regular and two cases are of particular significance. They are:
(i) the trochoidal wave, and (ii) the sinusoidal wave.

The theory of these two wave forms is developed in the following paragraphs
which can be omitted by the student wishing to have only a general appreci-
ation of wave systems.

Waves
TROCHOIDAL WAVES

The trochoidal wave theory has been adopted for certain standard calculations.
e.g. that for longitudinal strength. By observation, the theory appears to reflect
many actual ocean wave phenomena although it can be regarded as only an
approximation to the complex wave form actually existing.

The section of the trochoidal wave surface is defined mathematically as the
path traced by a point fixed within a circle when that circle is rolled along and
below a straight line as shown in Fig. 9.1.

Suppose the height and length of the wave to be generated are hy and \
respectively: then the radius of the generating circle is R, say, where

A=2nR

\ Locus of centre of
circle

Fig. 9.1 Generation of trochoidal wave form

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 328 ---
The ship environment and human factors 307

and the distance of the generating point from the centre of the circle is r, say,
where

hy = 2r

Let the centre of the generating circle start at position Co and let it have
turned through an angle @ by the time it reaches C. Then

CoC = NoN = RO

Relative to the x-, z-axes shown in Fig. 9.1, the co-ordinates of P are

x = RO—rsind
Xr hy.
= 579-4 siné

h,
z=r—reosd == (I — cos 6)

As the circle rolls it turns, instantaneously, about its point of contact, N, with
the straight line. Hence NP is the normal to the trochoidal surface and the
instantaneous velocity of P is

NPo normal to NP

Surfaces of equal pressure below the water surface will also be trochoidal.
Crests and troughs will lie vertically below those of the surface trochoid, i.e. the
length of the trochoidal wave is the same in all cases and they are all generated
by a rolling circle of the same diameter. At great depths, any surface distur-
bance is not felt so that the radius of the point generating the trochoidal surface
must reduce with increasing depth.

Consider two trochoidal sub-surfaces close to each other as shown in Fig. 9.2.

By definition, no particles of water pass through a trochoidal surface. Hence,
for continuity the space shown shaded in Fig. 9.2 must remain filled by the
same volume of water.

Rolling surface A

Rolling surfoceB

t " Trochoidal axis A

Trochordal axisB

Fig. 9.2 Sub-surface trochoids

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 329 ---
308 Basic ship theory

Let ¢ = thickness of layer at P (measured normal to the trochoidal surface).

Velocity at P = pr

Hence the condition of continuity implies

PNY = constant for all values of 0

ie.
tPN = constant for all values of @

Now CP and C’P’ are parallel and, provided 62 is small, PN and P/N’ are very
nearly parallel. Resolving along PN

PN’ + 6zcosé =PN+t

*. t= 6zcos@+6PN, where 6PN = P/N’ — PN
= 6: — ares *) + 6PN
PN
+, (PN = 62(R — rcos@) + PN6bPN

Also

PN’ = R? +? — 2Rrcosé
Differentiating and remembering that R and @ are constant

2PNOPN = 2rér — 2Rcos 6 6r

2. (PN = 62(R —rcos@) +r 6r — Roos @ ér
= R 6z +r 6r —cosO(r 6z + R br)

Since ¢PN is constant for all values of 6

r6z+R6r=0
.. in the limit

1 1
-dr = —=dz
ral R

Integrating

Zz
Ofer = C- Fe where c = constant

If r=ro atz=0, c=log. ro

og. = log. 10 — R

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 330 ---
The ship environment and human factors 309

ie.

r =roexp (- 5)

That is to say, the radius of the point tracing out the sub-surface trochoid
decreases exponentially with increasing depth. This exponential decay is often
met within natural phenomena, and is very rapid as is illustrated in Table 9.5
for a surface wave 150m long and 15m high, i.e. a wave for which

rA 75
R=—=—=23.87m
2n 0
15
r= > =7.5m
Table 9.5
Decay of orbital radius with depth
Zz (m) r (m) Zz (m) r (m)
0 7.50 25 2.57
5 6.06 50 0.87
10 4.88 100 0.10
23.87 2.76

Although it has been convenient to study the shape of the trochoidal wave
using the artifice of a point within a rolling circle, a particle in the water surface
itself does not trace out a trochoid. The absolute motion is circular and neglect-
ing bodily movement of masses of water such as those due to tides, is obtained
by superimposing on Fig. 9.1 an overall velocity of C from right to left such that

c-2
T

This superposition of a constant velocity in no way invalidates the results
obtained above or those which follow. The use of the ‘stationary’ trochoid as in
Fig. 9.1 is merely one of mathematical convenience.

The magnitude of C can be expressed in terms of \ by considering the forces
acting on a particle at P in Fig. 9.1. Such a particle will suffer a downward force
due to gravity and a ‘centrifugal force’ in the line CP.

If the mass of the particle is m, the gravitational force is mg and the
centrifugal force mrw” where w = d0/d?.

Since the surface is one of equal pressure, the resultant of these two forces
must be normal to the surface, i.e. it must lie in the direction of NP.

Referring to Fig. 9.3,

mg _ mre
NC CP

ie.
nye
mg mrw
R r

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 331 ---
310 Basic ship theory

|

Resultant force

Fig. 9.3 Forces on particle in wave surface

Whence

Now C = 4/T where T, the wave period = 27/w.
“ C= Aw/27 =wR
Hence

Cc = WR = gr=%
2a

Relationship between line of orbit centres and the undisturbed surface

In Fig. 9.4, the trochoidal wave form is superimposed on the still water surface.
It is clear that the volume of water in a crest, as measured above the still water
level, must be equal to the volume of a trough measured below this level. Put
another way, the area Py Pj Pj must equal the area of the rectangle Pp Pj L’L

or, for simplification of the integration

x=
[ z dx = 7R(r + 6z)
0

where 6z = distance of still water surface below the line of orbit centres. Since

x = RO—rsin@ and z=r-—rcos9@, we obtain

6
[ (r — rcos6)(R — rcos 6)dé = rR(r + 6z)
8

=0

0

[ (rR — rRoos6 — 1° cos 6 + 1° cos” 6)d = TR(r + 62)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 332 ---
The ship environment and human factors 311

Line of orbit centres

Still water surface

al Monk val

Fig. 9.4 Line of orbit centres in relation to the still water surface

ie.

“OR
This property has been used in the past as a wave pressure correction in the
longitudinal strength calculations.

SINUSOIDAL WAVES

Mathematically, the trochoidal wave is not easy to manipulate and the basic
units from which an irregular sea is assumed to be built up are sinusoidal in
profile.

For a wave travelling with velocity C in the direction of decreasing x,
Fig. 9.5, the profile of the wave can be represented by the equation

A.
z= 5 sin(gx + wt)

In this expression, g = 27/ is known as the wave number and w = 2n/T is
known as the wave frequency. The wave velocity as in the case of the trochoidal
wave, is given by

Aw

»
+
c—-———_ |

~~ ast wt
275 sin(qxtut)

be
|
|
|
|

z
Fig. 9.5 Profile of sinusoidal wave

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 333 ---
312 Basic ship theory

Other significant features of the wave are

7? 2

g
> _ 2mg
oN
2 gr
(oa

2a

Water particles within the waves move in orbits which are circular, the radii
of which decrease with depth in accordance with the expression

r= Fexp(-42) for depth z
From this it can be deduced that at a depth z = +-/2, the orbit radius is only
0.02H so that for all intents and purposes motion is negligibly small at depths
equal to or greater than half the wavelength (see Table 9.5). The proof of this
relationship is similar to that adopted for the trochoidal wave.
The hydrodynamic pressure at any point in the wave system is given by

H .
P= p&> exp(—qz) sin(gx + wt)

2
The average potential and kinetic energies per unit area of the wave system
are equal, and the average total energy per unit area is

H
ps z=

The energy of the wave system is transmitted at half the velocity of advance
of the waves. Thus, when a train of regular waves enters calm water, the front
of the waves advances at the velocity of energy transmission, and the individual
waves travel at twice this velocity and ‘disappear’ through the front.

Two of the above relationships are presented graphically in Fig. 9.6.

A fuller treatment of sinusoidal waves will be found in standard textbooks on
hydrodynamics. As mentioned above, this wave form is assumed in building up
irregular wave systems. It is also used in studying the response of a ship to
regular waves. Differences in response to a trochoidal wave would be small if
the waves are of the same height and length.

IRREGULAR WAVE PATTERNS

Behind the apparent confusion of the sea there is statistical order and the sea
surface may be regarded as the result of superimposing a large number of
regular sinusoidal waves of different, but small, heights and various lengths in
random phase. An important parameter is the range of lengths, and hence
frequencies, present in the system.

If all these wave components travel in the same direction, the irregular
pattern will exhibit a series of straight crests extending to infinity in a direction
normal to the direction of wave travel. Such a system is termed a /ong-crested

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 334 ---
The ship environment and human factors 313

Speed (m/s) and period (S)

Length (metres)

Fig. 9.6

irregular wave system and is referred to as one-dimensional (frequency). In the
more general case, the individual wave components travel in different directions
and the resultant wave pattern does not exhibit long crests but rather a series of
humps and hollows. Such a system is termed an irregular wave system or two-
dimensional system (frequency and direction). The remainder of this section is
devoted mainly to the long-crested system.

How is any irregular system to be defined? It is possible to measure the time
interval between successive crests passing a fixed point and the heights between
successive troughs and crests. These vary continuously and can be misleading in
representing a particular sea. For instance, a part of the system in which many
component waves cancelled each other out because of their particular phase
relationships would appear to be less severe than was in fact the case.

Provided the record of surface elevation against time is treated carefully,
however, it can yield some very useful information. If \ is the average distance
between crests and T the average time interval in seconds, it can be shown that,
approximately

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 335 ---
314 Basic ship theory

300}-

250/-

200}-

Average length (metres)

t= i i i i 1 1 1

Average period (seconds)

Fig. 9.7 Average period and wave-length

2¢T?
3x 20

A= = 1.0477, m
This relationship between \ and T is represented in Fig. 9.7. Both can be
related to wind speed as defined by the expression:

Average period = 0.285 V,, S

where V,, = wind speed in knots.

Since an observer is more likely to record T using a stop watch, applying the
classical relationship \ = gT?/27x would lead to an error.

In general, in this chapter record is used to refer to a record of the variation
of sea surface elevation, relative to its mean level, with time. A complete record
would be too difficult to analyse and a sample length is usually taken from time
to time, the duration of each being such as to ensure a reasonable statistical
representation of the sea surface.

The values of wave height in a sample can be arranged in descending order of
magnitude and the mean height of the first third of the values obtained. This
mean height of the highest one-third of the waves is termed the significant wave
height. The height of the highest wave occurring in a given record can also be
found. If a large number of wave records is so analysed for a given ocean area,
it is possible to plot the probability of exceeding a given significant wave height.
Results are presented in Fig. 9.8 for the North Atlantic, Northern North

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 336 ---
The ship environment and human factors 315

Probability

Sighificant Waveheight
‘gn tmetres) ‘9

Fig. 9.8 Waves at OWS station India

Atlantic and world wide. It will be noted that the Northern North Atlantic is
the most severe area as would be expected from general experience.

SEA STATE CODE

A generally accepted description of the sea state appropriate to various sig-
nificant wave heights is afforded by the sea state code.

Sea state code

Code Description of sea Significant wave height (m)
0 Calm (glassy) 0

1 Calm (rippled) 0-0.1

2 Smooth (wavelets) —_0.1--0.5

3 Slight 0.5-1.25
4 Moderate 1.25-2.50
5 Rough 2.50-4.00
6 Very rough 46

7 High 6-9

8 Very high 9-14

9 Phenomenal Over 14

HISTOGRAMS AND PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTIONS

The wave heights can also be arranged in groups so that the number of waves
with heights falling into various intervals can be counted. These can be plotted
as a histogram as in Fig. 9.9 in which the area of each rectangle represents the
number of waves in that interval of wave height. In practice, it is usual to
arrange scales such that the total area under the histogram is unity. The
histogram shows the distribution of heights in the wave sample, but in many

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 337 ---
316 Basic ship theory

applications subsequent analysis is easier if a mathematical curve can be fitted
to the results. Three theoretical distributions are of particular importance.
The Normal or Gaussian distribution which is defined by the equation

— UL 2
P(x) == am of $8 —) \

where j = mean of value of x, 07 = variance, and a) = standard deviation.

The Logarithmically Normal or Log-Normal Distribution which is defined by
the equation

P(log x) wim joes"
7 oy

where w= mean value of log x, oj = variance, and a; =standard deviation.

The Rayleigh distribution which is defined by the equation

where 2a is the mean value of x”.

In these expressions, p(x) is a probability density. Plotted to a base of x the
total area under the curve must be unity, expressing the fact that it is certain
that the variable under examination will take some value of x. The area under
the curve in a small interval of x, dx, is p(x) dx and this represents the
probability that the variable will take a value in the interval dx.

Integrating the curve leads to a cumulative probability distribution in which
the ordinate at a given value of x represents the area under the probability
distribution between 0 and x. The ordinate thus represents the probability that
the variable will have a value less than, or equal to, x.

It will be noted that the normal and log-normal distributions as functions of
x are defined by two variables, j: and o or wu and o4, and the Rayleigh distribu-
tion by one variable a. Hence, it is necessary to determine the values of these
quantities which most closely fit the observed wave data.

EXAMPLE 1. A record contains 1000 waves with heights up to 10 m, the numbers
of readings falling into various 1-m groups are

Height (m) Ol 12 23 34 45 56 67 78 89 910

Number of waves 6 29 88 180 247 260 133 42 10 5

Plot a histogram for these data and derive the corresponding normal dis-
tribution.

Solution: The histogram is obtained by erecting a series of rectangles on each
height band such that the area of each rectangle is proportional to the number

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 338 ---
The ship environment and human factors 317

of waves in that height band. For ease of comparison with the probability
curve, the total area of all rectangles is made unity by dividing by 1000 and the
histogram is plotted as in Fig. 9.9.

0:30

=- 475
“ae 3138,

0-20

Fig. 9.9 Histogram and normal probability curve superimposed

The mean, ju, of the wave heights is found by summating the products of the
average height in each band (x, say) by its frequency of occurrence (F,) and the
variance follows as in the table. Using Table 9.6,

4750
L= to00 = +79
__ 2282
= 7000 — = 2.282
o = 1.510

Hence the equation to the normal curve is

(x) 1 exp) 1 (82475
P= TS10/Qn) P) 24 151
ae x —4.75\"
~ 3.785 °°P 2.135

Corresponding values of x and p(x) are given in Table 9.6 and these have
been plotted in Fig. 9.9 superimposed on the histogram.


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 339 ---
318 Basic ship theory

Table 9.6
x, F, Xx/F, Xp ft (x, — w? F(x, — po?
0.5 6 3 —4.25 18.06 108.5
15 29 43.5 -3.25 10.56 306.2
25 88 220 -2.25 5.06 445.5
35 130 630 =125 1.56 281.3
45 247 WLS -0.25 0.06 15.5
5.5 260 1430 +0.75 0.56 146.2
65 133 864.5 +1.75 3.06 4073
75 ro) 315 42.75 7.56 3177
8.5 10 85 43.75 14.06 140.8
9.5 5 47.5 +4.75 22.56 112.7
1000 4750 2281.7
x 05 152535 4S 55. 65.75 BS O'S

P(x) 0.0050 0.0260 0.0870 0.1874 0.2606 0.2340 0.1350 0.0504 0.0120 0.0018

In applying the above techniques, it must be realized that particular sets of
records are only samples of all possible records, known in statistics as the
population, e.g. the wave data reproduced above for weather station India were
made in one area only and for limited periods of time. When an analytical
expression is fitted to the observed data, it is desirable to demonstrate that the
expression is reasonably valid. The reliability of the hypothesis can be evalu-
ated by applying statistical tests of significance which enable estimates to be
made of the expected variation of the measured data from the analytically
defined data if the hypothesis is true.

WAVE SPECTRA

A very useful method of presenting data on the wave system is in the form of a
wave spectrum. When there are n regular sine wave components present and n
is not too large, a /ine spectrum can be drawn as Fig. 9.10 where the height of
each ordinate represents the component wave amplitude or half the square of
the component wave amplitude. In this latter case the ordinate is proportional
to the component wave energy.

In practice, n is usually so large and the amplitude of each component so
small, that the concept of a continuous spectrum is more convenient. Taking the
energy spectrum form the area between frequencies fand f + 6f represents

S+of
soi
7 2

That is , the area under the curve between frequencies f and f + 6f represents
the sum of the energy of all component waves having frequencies in the band.
In the limit, as 6f tends to zero, the curve becomes smooth. This more general
curve can be represented by a plot of S(w) against w as in Fig. 9.11.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 340 ---
The ship environment and human factors 319

forints a He

£——

Fig. 9.10 Line spectrum

Sw) ay &

t

wy,

oo

Fig. 9.11 Continuous spectrum

Area under spectrum = mp = mean square of surface elevation
The area under the energy spectrum is given by

[ * S(w)dee

In more general terms the nth moment of the curve about the axis w = 0 is
oc
My = [ w"S(w)dw
0
It can be shown that
mo = area under spectrum = mean square of wave surface elevation

Referring to Fig. 9.12, mo can be obtained by measuring the surface elevation
¢, relative to the mean level, at equal time intervals. If n such measurements are
taken:

re)
ye
2n ¢

Lia.
my 5g (GEG Fo +n)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 341 ---
320 Basic ship theory

Mean wove
surface

Fig. 9.12

For reasonable accuracy, the time interval chosen should not be greater than
half the minimum time interval between successive crests and the number of
readings must be large.

WAVE CHARACTERISTICS

If the distribution of wave amplitude is Gaussian then the probability that at a
random instant of time the magnitude of the wave amplitude exceeds some
value ¢ is given (for a normal distribution) by

P(C) = 1 = erf[¢/ (2m)

The error function (erf) is tabulated in standard mathematical tables.

The percentages of wave amplitudes exceeding certain values are shown in
Fig. 9.13. It will be seen that more than 60 per cent of waves have amplitudes of
s/o or less.

100

80

60

40

Percentage exceedence

20

° 0-5 1-0 1S 2-0
Amplitude //mo

Fig. 9.13

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 342 ---
The ship environment and human factors 321

However, observations at sea show that many statistical properties of the
wave surface can be closely represented by the Rayleigh distribution. It can be
shown that for waves represented by a Rayleigh distribution:

Most frequent wave amplitude = 0.707\/(2mo) = /mo
Average wave amplitude = 0.886/(2mpo) = 1.25,/imo
Average amplitude of } highest waves = 1.416,/(2m9) = 2,/mo

Average amplitude of 7; highest waves = 1.800,/(2nm) = 2.55,/mo

Note: Some authorities plot ¢? against f as the spectrum. In this case, the area
under the spectrum is 279 where mp is defined as above.

The average amplitude of} highest waves is denoted by (i, and is termed the
significant wave amplitude.

More generally if the values of ¢ were to be arranged in descending order of
magnitude, the mean value of the first cn of these is given by k\¢s where
corresponding values of c and k, are given below:

Table 9.7

Corresponding values of c and k,
c ky c ky
0.01 2.359 0.4 1.347
0.05 1.986 0.5 1.256
0.1 1.800 0.6 1.176
0.2 1.591 0.7 1.102
0.25 1.517 0.8 1.031
0.3 1.454 0.9 0.961
0.3333 1.416 1.0 0.886

It also follows that:
(a) the probability that ¢ should exceed a certain value r is given by

G4+G+--4+G)

[vine = exp(—r?/C?) where C = x

(5) the expected value of the maximum amplitude in a sample of n values is
kx¢s where corresponding values of n and k» are given in Table 9.8.

Table 9.8
Corresponding values of n and ky

n ky n ky

1 0.707 500 2.509

2 1.030 1000 2.642

5 1.366 2000 2.769
10 1.583 5000 2.929
20 1.778 10,000 3.044
50 2.010 20,000 3.155
100 2.172 50,000 3.296

200 2.323 100,000 3.400

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 343 ---
322 Basic ship theory

(c) in such a sample the probability that ¢ will be greater than r is
1 —exp[—exp{—(r? — 75)/C7}]
where 1,/¢7 = logn

(d) The number of zero up-crossings (Fig. 9.14) per unit time is:

mo

1 4
i vs Average period Ty = 27 ym;

(ce) The number of maxima per unit time is:

1 -
ms. Average period T;, = a

2x Vm m4
(f) Average wavelengths are:

FZ mo :
ro = one [me based on zero up-crossings
° Vig

m4 :
Xn = one [me based on maxima
VV) mg

Turning values

Meon
wave surface
Zero crossing

Fig. 9.14 Wave elevation recorded at a fixed point

In the more general case when the spectrum is not narrow its width can be
represented by a parameter e. The extreme values of € are 0 and | representing a
Rayleigh and normal distribution of wave amplitude respectively.

Then, if mo is the mean square value of the wave surface relative to the mean
level, the variance as previously defined, it can be shown that the

mean square crest height = (2 — €7)mpo
By putting « = 0, it follows that

C = 2m

On the other hand in a very broad spectrum with ¢ = 1,

mean square crest height = m9

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 344 ---
The ship environment and human factors 323

Also, mean crest to trough height is:

{71 —2ymp}"”

and

number of zero crossings
number of turning points

hence(1 — ¢)!”?

Thus, referring to Fig. 9.14 and remembering that, in practice, a much longer
record would be used

Number of zero crossings = 11; Number of turning values = 19

Hence
11
1-2e)'? =_ =0.58
(l-e) 9
ie.
e = 0.815

FORM OF WAVE SPECTRA

There has been much debate concerning the form of representative wave
spectra. The dependence of the wave system upon the strength, duration and
fetch of the wind has already been discussed. Some of the differences between
the spectra advanced by various authorities are probably due, therefore, to the
difficulty of deciding when a sea is fully developed because a uniform wind

4%

——swi

Fig. 9.15 Growth of spectra

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 345 ---
324 Basic ship theory

—e= Sw)

Fig. 9.16 Decay of spectra

seldom blows long enough for this to be determined. When a wind begins to
blow, short, low amplitude waves are formed at first. As the wind continues to
blow, larger and longer waves are formed. As the wind dies down the longer
waves move out of the area by virtue of their greater velocity, leaving the
shorter waves. Thus the growth and decay of wave spectra is as shown in
Figs. 9.15 and 9.16.

Because of the dependence of a fully developed sea on wind strength earlier
attempts to define wave spectra used wind speed as the main parameter. One
such was that due to Pierson and Moskowitz, viz.:

8.1 x 103g? 4
S(w) = STE exp{ -0.74( 5) \nts

Ww WW,

2
1

ginms~
V in ms~

Typical plots are given in Fig. 9.17. These show how rapidly the area under
the curves increases with increasing wind speed, while the peak frequency
decreases.

The spectrum now most widely adopted is that recommended by the Inter-
national Towing Tank Conference:

A
S(w) = a exp(-B/u") (the Bretschneider spectrum)

w is the circular frequency of the waves (s-!) and A and B are constants.
It will be noted that this is of the same general form as that due to Pierson
and Moskowitz. For this form

Maximum S(w) = 4(0.8B)~*/4e5/4at w = (0.8B)!/4

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 346 ---
The ship environment and human factors 325

30
B
2
5
=
= 5
5
10
7 V=20m/sec
V=15m/sec
5
v=10m/sec
00 05 10 15
w@ (‘sec)
Fig. 9.17
When both significant wave height and the characteristic wave period, 7), are
known,
173 @
A= 5
4
T
B=691/T} ¢; = significant wave height in m
mo
T, = 2n— =4/m
1 m vg

When only the significant wave height is known, an approximation to S(w) is
given using

A=8.10 x 103g?

B=3.11/@

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 347 ---
326 Basic ship theory

A suggested relationship for significant wave height in terms of wind speed
for a fully developed sea is shown in Fig. 9.23. A typical family of spectra for
long crested seas using the single parameter formula is shown in Fig. 9.18. With
this simple version the ratio between the frequency or wave length at peak
energy and the significant wave height is constant for all spectra the value of the
ratio being 39.2. This is not true for all ocean spectra although many have
values in the range 30 to 50. Hence for general purposes, such as prediction of
ship motion likely to be experienced by a new design, the use of the simple
formula is acceptable. Where it is necessary to vary the ratio the more elaborate
formula can be used. Figure 9.19 presents a family of spectra with significant
wave height of 7.5 metres.

Su) (m*sec)

Of pra T= 18 5, W534m Significant _ 7.5

Waveheight
=165, 425m

T=14-5, ¥328m

Sb) (m@sec)

02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 348 ---
The ship environment and human factors 327

For limited fetch conditions, the ITTC recommend

2

Sy(w) = 0.658 S(w)(3.3) exp( S007") mS
V2o

where o = 0.07 for w < 4.857;
o = 0.09 for w > 4.857)

For a multi-directional sea the ITTC recommend applying a spreading
function as follows

S(w, 1) = Kos" pS(w)  — 5 <p< 5

where ys = direction of wave components relative to the predominant wave
direction.

The 1978 ITTC recommended use of K = 2/7 and n = 2 in the absence of
better data.

EXTREME WAVE AMPLITUDES

The naval architect is often concerned with the extreme waves that can occur.
Suppose a number of records, say M, are taken with the same significant wave
amplitude and N values of wave amplitude are recorded from each record. If
the greatest wave amplitude in each record is noted there will be M such
maxima. Then Table 9.9 expresses the maximum wave amplitudes in terms of
the significant amplitude ia for various values of N.

Table 9.9

Exceptionally high waves

N 5% lower Most frequent Average 5% greater
20 0.99 1.22 1.32 1.73
50. «1.19 1.40 1.50 1.86

100 (1.33 1.52 1.61 1.94

200 = 1.45 1.63 1.72 2.03

500 1.60 1.76 1.84 2.14

1000 1.70 1.86 1.93 2.22

Thus, if each record has 200 wave amplitudes then, of the M maximum
readings.

5 per cent can be expected to be lower than 1.45¢
The most frequent value = 1.63¢, :
The average value = 1.72¢,

5 per cent can be expected to be greater than 2.030

Extreme value statistics were studied by Gumbel and are based on a prob-
ability distribution function with a pronounced skew towards the higher values

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 349 ---
328 Basic ship theory

of the variate. Type I extreme value distributions represent the numerical value
of probability for the largest values of a reduced variate y as

®(x) = exp[- exp(—y)]
where y= a(x —u)
x = extreme variate

a =a scale parameter
u = the mode of the distribution

The probability distribution for the smallest values is

®(x) = 1 — exp[-exp(y)]
In type II distributions the logarithm of the variate is used.

10 +
08 +
G(x) 06 +
& df

o4+

02 7

Reduced variate y

Fig. 9.20 Gumbel Type I Extreme value probability and cumulative probability distribution

Plots of ®(x) and d®/dy are presented in Fig. 9.20. In this distribution the
mode occurs at y = 0, the median at y = 0.367 and the mean at y = 0.577. A
special paper is available for plotting data for extreme value statistics (see Fig.
9.21). The reduced variate and ordinate scales are linear. The frequency scale
follows from the relationship of Fig. 9.20. The ‘return period’ scale at the top
derives its name from an early application of extreme value statistics to flooding
problems.

If observed data are in accord with the Gumbel distribution they will lie close
to a straight line when plotted on the special paper, the line being

x=ut+y/a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 350 ---
329

The ship environment and human factors

(A) 8JONDA paanpey

S66 8 L 9 4 € z t 0 I- z-
t + + + + + +————_+— + -——+ 4
Auanbas4
66660 86660 5666-0 666-0 8660 1660 5660 66-0 860 160 560 060 080 00 = 05-0 060 02-0 O00 100-0

T 1+ -7—+—-h,

0s

Oo OE 02
Powag wNyay

Oo

aero

z

Ob ah Zh bb WO 100+

(X) anyDA aula4yx3

176 “SLI

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 351 ---
330 Basic ship theory

Such a plot can provide a lot of useful information, e.g.

(a) If x) is the ordinate of the straight line corresponding to a probability of
0.30 then only 30 per cent of the results will be x, or less in value.
Conversely, the probability of a result being less than any particular value
of x can be found.

(5) The most probable extreme value is obtained by noting the ordinate
corresponding to zero on the reduced variate scale. The mean and median
values follows from the corresponding reduced variate values quoted
above.

(c) To discover how many results are needed to give a 50 per cent probability
of observing an extreme value of x), the return period corresponding to
this ordinate on the straight line is read off.

OCEAN WAVE STATISTICS

The ITTC formulation defines the wave spectrum in terms of the characteristic
wave period and the significant wave height. If a designer wishes to ascertain
the motions of a design in waves with specific values of these parameters, this
can be done provided that the response in regular waves is known. This aspect
of ship motions is dealt with later.

More generally the designer is concerned with the motions likely to be
experienced during a given voyage or during the life of the ship. For this
statistics are needed on the probability of occurrence of various sea conditions
at different times of the year on the likely trade routes together with the
predominant wave directions. Such statistics are available in a publication by
The Stationery Office called Ocean Wave Statistics, which has some 3,000 tables
based on a million sets of observations of wave heights, periods and directions.
Although individually the observations may be suspect, taken in aggregate the
overall statistics can provide an accurate picture. There is evidence to show that
the characteristic period and significant wave height of the ITTC formula
correspond closely to the observed period and height.

The data are presented for 50 sea areas (Fig. 9.22) for which a reasonable
number of observations are available and in which conditions are fairly homo-
geneous. Thus they cover the well-frequented sea routes. Where observers
reported both sea and swell the tables present the group of waves with the greater
height or, if heights are equal, that with the longer period. The heights and periods
are those obtained from the larger well-formed waves of the system observed.

The detailed tables of wave period against wave height are arranged by area,
season and wave direction. Summary tables covering all seasons and directions
are provided. They are illustrated by Tables 9.10 to 9.12.

The data can be combined and presented in a number of ways. Table 9.13
presents the data for areas 1, 2, 6, 7 and 8 for all seasons and all directions
in terms of the expected number of days occurrence in the year. Table 9.14
presents the same data in terms of percentage frequency of occurrence with the
data reported under ‘calm or period undetermined’ spread over the range


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 352 ---
331

The ship environment and human factors

OL

OLL O81 OLL O9L OSL OFF OEL OZ OLL OO! 06 08 OL 09 OS OY OE OZ O O O OZ OE OF

0S 09 OL 08 06 OOL OL OL OEL Ov OSL O91 OLL

a TTITTtTt

=

LS aS CS a Ms GC SO
OL O8b OLL O9L OSL OM OEL OZL OL OOL 06 08 OL 09 0S OF OE OZ O O O OZ OE OF

i

OS O% OL 08 06 OOL OLL OZ OEL Ov OSL O9b OLE

OL

02°6 “Bld

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 353 ---
332 Basic ship theory

of periods reported in proportion to the observations recorded. Tables 9.15
and 9.16 give similar percentage frequencies for areas 1, 2, 6-11, 16-18 and
world wide.

Table 9.10
Area 2. All seasons. All directions (from Ocean Wave Statistics)

Wave period code

x 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 Totals
00 524 514 24 18 11 4 2 1 7 4 1109
Ol 73, 1558 179 46 20 8 8 4 6 5 63 1970
02 186 2800 1448 321 123 42 6 3 6 5 48 4988
03 289 1565-2860 ——-:1083 275 85 35 13 6 3 4 6218
04 232 476 ©2049 = 1460 388 119 30 10 3 4767
05 190 229, 13251455 620 185 65 13 6 1 2 4091
06 118 96 681 1015 584 224 48 13, 10 2 2791
07 97 48 435 769 555 253 75 13 5 2250
08 52 25 204 480 411 195 58 28 7 2 1 1463
09 69 25 193 421 397 241 69 28 «17 1 1461
10 14 3 34 71 80 25 14 2 1 1 245
11 15 21 79 65 56 24 5 1 1 267
12 12 3 34 97 120 78 33 15 3 2 397
13 10 6 40 68 103 71 24 13 2 3 340
14 4 5 21 35 34 31 18 8 1 157
15 4 1 16 45 41 30 14 7 3 161
16 10 2 10 31 35 40 26 9 2 3 168
17 4 1 15 13 21 13 4 71
18 3 4 7 25 15 7 3 64
19 8 2 8 26 32 47 23 12 3 161
91 1 1 2
92 1 2 3
95 1 1 2

Totals 1914 7358 9587 7542 3935 1773 590 205 83 27 132 33146

Wave period Wave period Wave height code number in left hand column
code seconds is twice wave height in metres except:

x Calm or period 00= 0.25m
undetermined
5 Or Less
6Or7
8Or9

10 Or 11

12 Or 13

14 Or 15

16 Or 17

18 Or 19

20 Or 21
Over 21

ROC HMIDANUEAWN

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 354 ---
The ship environment and human factors 333

Table 9.11
Area 2. All seasons
260° 270° 280°

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
00 50 2 3 1 1 57
Ol 199 16 7 3 1 2 1 6 235
02 381 252 46 16 5 1 1 1 8 711
03 248 498 191 46 20 4 3 1 101
04 72 382 276 76 22 7 5 1 841
05 37 285 317. 159 46 12 2 3 861
06 19 149 220 «131 54 10 1 4 1 589
07 8 84 197 150 67 22 4 2 534
08 6 49 136 = 105 54 17 14 2 1 384
09 7 48 120 115 82 19 15 5 ol 412
10 1 11 29 32 10 3 1 1 88
11 3 27 19 12 5 1 67
12 11 21 42 28 8 3 1 114
13 1 14 18 35 29 5 4 1 107
14 8 16 10 7 7 1 49
15 5 16 18 11 7 3 3 63
16 2 2 16 9 11 13 5 1 3 62
17 5 4 11 7 2 29
18 2 5 13 6 1 1 28
19 1 6 8 17 3 1 1 37
91 1 1 2
92 1 2 3
95 1 1

1031 1820 1671 996 497 153 68 26 4 19 6285
Table 9.12
Area 2. December to February

260° 270° 280°
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 O 1

00 5 1 6

01 28 1 29
02 39 23 4 2 1 1 70
03 43 53 21 4 2 123
04 12 56 42 9 6 2 3 1 131
05 5 52 39 19 5 2 1 123
06 2 23 45 22 10 1 1 104
07 2 19 42 44 13 4 2 126
08 1 10 24 23 17 5 2 82
09 4 15 38 37 21 7 4 126
10 2 2 13 1 1 1 20
11 12 6 6 2 26
12 2 7 17 6 1 2 35
13 1 4 3 9 8 1 2 28
14 4 5 4 1 14
15 2 6 5 1 2 2 18
16 1 6 8 4 6 2 2 29
17 3 3 7 4 1 18
18 3 7 5 15
19 1 3 10 3 1 18
91 1 1
92 1 1
95 1 1

143° 259 «299 233) «134 43-23 6 4 1144

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 355 ---
Table 9.13

Wave statistics. All seasons. All directions. Days per year northern North Atlantic

Wave Wave Period 7; (seconds) Total
height

(metres) * <5 6-7 8-9 10-11 12-13 14-15 16-17 18-19 20-21 >21

0.25 6.127 7.163 0.264 0.151 0.106 0.036 0.014 0.022 0.012 0.156 0.102 14.153
0.5 0.706 18.977 2.224 0.612 0.295 0.088 0.055 0.028 0.024 0.043 0.863 23.915
1.0 1.747 36.768 17.697 4.029 1.342 0.485 0.146 0.061 0.040 0.071 0.395 62.781
1.5 2.136 19.507 34.577 12.423 3.249 1.071 0.380 0.140 0.045 0.029 0.066 73.623
2.0 1.721 5.638 23.020 17.059 5.355 1.487 0.430 0.133 0.050 0.014 0.014 54.921
2.5 1.272 2.349 13.101 14.968 7.236 2.207 0.725 0.191 0.061 0.021 0.017 42.148
3.0 0.966 0.940 6.340 10.187 6.529 2.437 0.747 0.194 0.055 0.009 0.009 28.413
3.5 0.744 0.555 3.771 7.080 5.353 2.543 0.860 0.225 0.080 0.007 0.007 21.225
4.0 0.437 0.238 1.973 4.128 3.748 2.018 0.690 0.277 0.087 0.012 0.005 13.613
4.5 0.541 0.222 1.642 3.580 3.367 1.992 0.829 0.347 0.106 0.016 0.012 12.654
5.0 0.128 0.038 0.236 0.624 0.648 0.362 0.158 0.040 0.005 0.007 0.005 2.251
5.5 0.097 0.045 0.220 0.576 0.603 0.397 0.212 0.062 0.007 0.005 0.003 2.227
6.0 0.102 0.055 0.342 0.844 0.967 0.586 0.258 0.102 0.028 0.002 0.007 3.293
6.5 0.076 0.057 0.293 0.687 0.927 0.584 0.276 0.107 0.023 0.003 0.007 3.040
7.0 0.047 0.026 0.120 0.347 0.350 0.234 0.113 0.040 0.007 0.000 0.002 1.286
75 0.059 0.009 0.149 0.350 0.437 0.298 0.158 0.068 0.016 0.002 0.005 1.551
8.0 0.061 0.016 0.081 0.272 0.317 0.316 0.123 0.073 0.010 0.009 0.012 1.290
8.5 0.029 0.003 0.057 0.120 0.189 0.163 0.102 0.049 0.007 0.005 0.003 0.727
9.0 0.023 0.003 0.031 0.087 0.179 0.140 0.062 0.042 0.007 0.000 0.005 0.579
9.5 0.054 0.010 0.055 0.192 0.321 0.274 0.161 0.085 0.057 0.028 0.014 1.251
> 10 0.000 0.000 0.004 0.007 0.015 0.024 0.005 0.000 0.002 0.002 0.000 0.059
Totals 17.073 92.619 106.197 78.323 41.533 17.742 6.504 2.286 0.729 0.441 1.553 365.000

*Calm or period undetermined

w
w

drys oispg

A1oay)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 356 ---
Table 9.14

Percentage frequency of occurrence of sea states, northern North Atlantic

Wave Wave Period 7; (seconds) Total
height

(metres) <5 6-7 8-9 10-11 12-13 14-15 16-17 18-19 20-21 >21

Up to 0.50 5.1870 0.3864 0.1364 0.0785 0.0254 0.0125 0.0122 0.0077 0.0655 0.1500 6.0616
0.5-1.25 13.9308 5.4071 1.2508 0.4336 0.1534 0.0515 0.0223 0.0158 0.0282 0.2738 21.5673
1.25-2.5 7.4338 18.1186 10.4412 3.4524 1.0344 0.3308 0.1043 0.0356 0.0153 0.0251 40.9915
2.54 0.7898 5.0003 7.5983 4.9232 2.0100 0.6557 0.1850 0.0592 0.0091 0.0077 21.2383
46 0.1290 0.9294 2.0748 1.9919 1.1577 0.4774 0.1824 0.0500 0.0099 0.0076 7.0101
6-9 0.0398 0.2517 0.6354 0.7925 0.5554 0.2644 0.1158 0.0227 0.0055 0.0099 2.6931
9-14 0.0033 0.0209 0.0691 0.1201 0.1039 0.0564 0.0302 0.0178 0.0082 0.0047 0.4346
144 — 0.0005 0.0002 0.0014 0.0012 — — — 0.0002 — 0.0035
Totals 27.5135 30.1149 22.2062 11.7936 5.0414 1.8487 0.6522 0.2088 0.1419 0.4788 100.0000

ssojov{ ubUiNY pub JuaiUo.sdaua diys ay,

See

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 357 ---
Table 9.15

Percentage frequency of occurrence of sea states, North Atlantic

Wave Wave Period T; (seconds) Total
height

(metres) <5 6-7 8-9 10-11 12-13 14-15 16-17 18-19 20-21 >21

Up to 0.50 7.1465 0.5284 0.1608 0.0792 0.0318 0.0147 0.0140 0.0083 0.0876 0.2390 8.3103
0.5-1.25 18.6916 6.8744 1.4616 0.4616 0.1798 0.0616 0.0355 0.0158 0.0392 0.3785 28.1996
1.25-2.5 8.6495 19.1881 9.7609 3.0633 0.9056 0.2969 0.0967 0.0269 0.0104 0.0290 42.0273
2.54 0.6379 3.7961 5.4827 3.4465 1.4291 0.4597 0.1368 0.0420 0.0067 0.0060 15.4435
46 0.0863 0.5646 1.2574 1.2199 0.7040 0.3005 0.1143 0.0338 0.0076 0.0054 4.2938
6-9 0.0258 0.1468 0.3486 0.4417 0.3052 0.1451 0.0614 0.0126 0.0039 0.0057 1.4968
9-14 0.0018 0.0114 0.0362 0.0614 0.0520 0.0320 0.0163 0.0082 0.0046 0.0024 0.2263
144 — 0.0002 0.0001 0.0006 0.0006 — — — 0.0001 — 0.0016
Totals 35.2394 31.1100 18.5083 8.7742 3.6081 1.3105 0.4750 0.1476 0.1601 0.6660 99.9992

w
w

9

A4oay) dys aispg

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 358 ---
Table 9.16

Percentage frequency of occurrence of sea states, world wide

Wave Wave Period 7; (seconds) Total
height

(metres) <5 6-7 8-9 10-11 12-13 14-15 16-17 18-19 20-21 >21

Up to 0.50 10.0687 0.5583 0.1544 0.0717 0.0272 0.0117 0.0087 0.0076 0.0959 0.2444 11.2486
0.5-1.25 22.2180 6.9233 1.4223 0.4355 0.1650 0.0546 0.0268 0.0123 0.0394 0.3878 31.6850
1.25-2.5 8.6839 18.1608 9.0939 2.9389 0.8933 0.2816 0.0889 0.0222 0.0079 0.0230 40.1944,
2.5-4 0.5444 3.0436 4.4913 2.9163 1.2398 0.4010 0.1220 0.0322 0.0050 0.0049 12.8005
46 0.0691 0.3883 0.8437 0.8611 0.5214 0.2244 0.0866 0.0229 0.0045 0.0033 3.0253
6-9 0.0223 0.0928 0.2164 0.2632 0.1842 0.0908 0.0419 0.0081 0.0032 0.0034 0.9263
9-14 0.0014 0.0067 0.0186 0.0316 0.0258 0.0177 0.0094. 0.0044 0.0023 0.0011 0.1190
144 — 0.0001 0.0001 0.0003 0.0003 — — — 0.0001 — 0.0009
Totals 41.6078 29.1739 16.2408 7.5187 3.0571 1.0814 0.3844 0.1098 0.1583 0.6679 100.0001

ssojov{ ubUiNY pub JuaiUo.sdaua diys ay,

Lee

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 359 ---
338 Basic ship theory

Climate
THE WIND

The main influence of the wind is felt indirectly through the waves it generates
on the surface of the sea. As stated above, the severity of these waves will
depend upon the strength (i.e. velocity) of the wind, the time it acts (i.e. its
duration) and the distance over which it acts (i.e. the fetch).

The strength of the wind is broadly classified by the Beaufort Scale. The
numbers 0 to 12 were introduced by Admiral Sir Francis Beaufort in 1806, 0
referring to a calm and force 12 to a wind of hurricane force. Originally, there
were no specific wind speeds associated with these numbers but the values
shown in Table 9.17 have now been adopted internationally. The figures relate
to an anemometer at a height of 6 m above the sea surface.

No fixed relation exists between the spectra of a sea and the speed of wind
generating it. Figure 9.23 shows a relationship agreed by the ITTC but it
applies only to fully developed seas where duration and fetch are large. Figure
9.24 shows the probability of exceeding a given wind speed in the North
Atlantic.

Table 9.17
The Beaufort Scale
(Kts) Limits of speed (m/s)
0 Calm 1 0.3
1 Light air 1-3 0.3-1.5
2 Light breeze 46 1.6-3.3
3 Gentle breeze 7-10 3.4-5.4
4 Moderate breeze 11-16 5.5-7.9
5 Fresh breeze 17-21 8.0-10.7
6 Strong breeze 22-27 10.8-13.8
7 Near gale 28-33 13.9-17.1
8 Gale 34-40 17.2-20.7
9 Strong gale 41-47 20.8-24.4
10 Storm 48-55 24.5-28.4
11 Violent Storm 56-63 28.5-32.6
12 Hurricane 64 & over 32.7 & over

The wind velocity varies with height. At the surface of the water, the
relative velocity is zero due to a boundary layer effect. Stability calculations
often adopt a nominal wind at 10m above the waterline, and the variation in
wind velocity with height is assumed to be in accord with Fig. 9.25. It will be
noted, that these nominal velocities will be about 6 per cent less than those
defined by the Beaufort Scale at a height of 6 m above the surface. Also
given in Fig. 9.25 is a curve based on this nominal height. Because of this
variation of wind speed with height, it is important to define both in any
calculation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 360 ---
The ship environment and human factors 339

Oo 5 10 1 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60

Wind Speed
(Knots)

0 i) 10 15 20 25 30 35 20 45 50 55 60
Wind Speed( Knots)

For nominal velocities other than 100 knots, the true velocities can be scaled
in direct proportion to the nominal velocities.

More direct influences of the wind are felt by the ship as forces acting on the
above water portions of the hull and the superstructure. The fore and aft
components of such forces will act either as a resistive or propulsive force.
The lateral force will act as a heeling moment. Thus, standards of stability
adopted in a given design must reflect the possible magnitude of this heeling
moment, e.g. large windage area ships will require a greater stability standard
as discussed in Chapter 4.

Another direct influence of the wind, including the effect of the ship’s own
speed, is to cause local wind velocities past the superstructure which may
entrain the funnel gases and bring them down on to the after decks, or which
may produce high winds across games decks to the discomfort of passengers.
These effects are often studied by means of model experiments conducted in
a wind tunnel, in order to obtain a suitable design of funnel and super-
structure.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 361 ---
340 Basic ship theory

25
20
E
8 25
5
a
2 15
8
ct @ 20)
= ¢
> 3
3 £
= a
8 \5)
10 5
@
g
8
8
= 10
o
z
5
mm
5
°
0 60 80 100 = 120 60 80 100 120

Wind speed (Knots) Wind speed (knots)

Fig. 9.25 Variation of wind speed with height above sea surface (nominal wind speed 100 knots)

AMBIENT AIR

A ship is completely immersed in two fluids—air for the upper portion and
water for the lower portion. Because the specific heat of water is much greater
than that for air, the former suffers a much slower variation of temperature due
to climatic changes. In defining the temperature environment of the ship, it is
necessary to quote temperatures for both the air and water. Further, it is
common experience that the humidity of air is important in determining the
degree of comfort in hot climates. This idea is elaborated later in this chapter,
but for the present, it is enough to know that for air it is necessary to specify the
temperature that would be recorded on both a ‘wet bulb’ and a ‘dry bulb’
thermometer.

Standard temperatures considered by the UK Ministry of Defence as being
appropriate to different regions of the world at various times of the year are
given in Table 9.18.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 362 ---
The ship environment and human factors 341

Table 9.18
Standard climatic figures, UK Ministry of Defence
Region Average max. Average min.
Summer temperature (°C) Winter temperature (°C)
Air Deep sea Air Deep sea
Dry Wet Water temp. Dry Wet Water temp.
bulb bulb near surface bulb bulb near surface
Extreme Tropics 34.5 30 33
Tropics 31 27 30
Temperature 30 24 29
Temperate Winter —4 _— 2
Sub-Arctic Winter —10 — 1
Arctic and Antarctic Winter —29 — —2

For air conditioning calculations, conditions given in Table 19.19 are recom-
mended; figures in parentheses are the approximate values in degrees Celsius.

Table 9.19
Dry bulb Wet bulb Relative humidity
CC) CC) (%)

Red Sea passenger vessels 32 30 85

Other passenger vessels 31 27 70

Extreme Tropical cargo vessels and tankers 32 29 78

Table 9.20

Extreme recorded air temperatures (°C)

Harbour At sea
Tropics 52 38

Arctic —40 —30

These temperatures are important to the ship design in a number of ways.
The air temperature, for instance, influences:

(a) the amount of heating or cooling required for air entering the ship to
maintain a given internal temperature;

(5) the amount of thermal insulation which can be economically justified;

(c) efficiency of some machinery;

(d) the amount of icing likely to occur in cold climates and thus the standard of
stability required to combat this (Chapter 4), and the need to provide
special de-icing facilities.

The water temperature influences:

(a) density of water and thus the draught;
(b) the efficiency of, and hence the power output from, machinery, e.g. steam
machinery may suffer a loss of about 3 per cent of power in the tropics

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 363 ---
342 Basic ship theory

compared with temperate conditions. The effect on other machinery may be
greater, but all types are affected to some degree including auxiliaries such
as electrical generators, pumps, and air conditioning plant;

(c) whether ice is likely to be present and if so how thick and, thus, whether
special strengthening of the ship is necessary.

Both air and water temperatures can cause expansion or contraction of
materials leading to stresses where two dissimilar materials are joined together.
Temperature differences between the air and water can lead to relative expan-
sion or contraction of the upper deck relative to the keel causing the ship to hog
or sag. This leads to stresses in the main hull girder and can upset the relative
alignment of items some distance apart longitudinally. Similarly, if one side of
the ship is in strong sunlight the main hull will tend to bend in a horizontal plane.

The above temperatures are used in calculations for assessing the capacity
required of ventilation or air conditioning systems or for the degradation in
machinery power generation.

Equipment should be tested in accordance with standard specifications:

(a) in locations where the ambient temperature rises and remains at a relatively
constant level, e.g. in machinery spaces where the temperature is mainly
influenced by the heat generated by machinery;

(5) where the adjacent air temperatures are indirectly affected by solar heating,
e.g. equipment in the open but not fully exposed;

(c) fully exposed to solar radiation. In this case not only surface heating is impor-
tant but also the degradation of materials caused by the ultra-violet radiation;

(d) in low temperature environments.

The tests may have to cater for high or low humidity conditions and may
need to allow for diurnal variations.

CLIMATIC EXTREMES

The designer must allow for extreme climatic conditions although these may
only be met on a few occasions. These are usually specified by an owner. British
Standards Specifications and the MIL Specifications of the USA are usual.
Care is necessary to ensure that the latest specifications are used.

Dust and sand. These cause abrasion of surfaces and penetrate into joints where
movements due to vibration, and to changes in temperature, may bring about
serious wear. Movements of particles can also set up static electrical charges.
Although arising from land masses, dust and sand can be carried considerable
distances by high winds. Specifications define test conditions, e.g. grade of dust
or sand, concentration, air velocity and duration.

Rain. Equipments should be able to operate without degradation of perform-
ance in a maximum rainfall intensity of 0.8 mm/min at 24°C and a wind speed
of 8m/s for periods of 10 min with peaks of 3mm/ min for periods of 2 min.
The test condition is 180mm/h of rain for 1 hour. Driving sea spray can be
more corrosive than rain.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 364 ---
The ship environment and human factors 343

Icing. Equipments fitted in the mast head region must remain operational and
safe with an ice accretion rate of 6.4mm/h with a total loading of 24 kg/m?
Corresponding figures for equipment on exposed upper decks are 25 mm/h and
70 kg/m’. Such equipments must be able to survive a total loading of
120 kg/m’, Equipments fitted with de-icing facilities should be able to shed
25mm ice per hour.

Hail. Equipment should be able to withstand without damage or degradation
of performance a hailstorm with stones of 6 to 25mm, striking velocity 14 to
25m/s, duration 7 min.

High winds. Exposed equipments should remain secure and capable of their
design performance in a relative steady wind to ship speed of 30 m/s with gusts
of 1 min duration of 40m/s. They must remain secure, albeit with some
degradation of performance in wind to ship speed of 36m/s with gusts of
1 min duration of 54m/s.

Green sea loading. With heavy seas breaking over a ship, exposed equipment
and structure are designed to withstand a green sea frontal pulse loading of
70 kPa acting for 350 ms with transients to 140 kPa for 15 ms.

Solar radiation. Direct sunlight in a tropical summer will result in average
surface temperatures of up to 50°C for a wooden deck or vertical metal surfaces
and 60°C for metal decks. Equipment should be designed to withstand the
maximum thermal emission from solar radiation which is equivalent to a heat
flux of 1120 W/m acting for 4 hours causing a temperature rise of about 20°C
on exposed surfaces.

Mould growth. Mould fungi feed by breaking down and absorbing certain
organic compounds. Growth generally occurs where the relative humidity
(rh) is greater than 65 per cent and the temperature is in the range 0 to 50°C.
Most rapid growth occurs with rh greater than 95 per cent and temperature 20
to 35°C and the atmosphere is stagnant. Equipments should generally be able
to withstand exposure to a mould growth environment for 28 days (84 for some
critical items) without degradation of performance. Moulds can damage or
degrade performance by:

(a) direct attack on the material, breaking it down. Natural products such as
wood, cordage, rubber, greases, etc., are most vulnerable;

(b) indirectly by association with other surface deposits which can lead to acid
formation;

(c) physical effects, e.g. wet growth may form conducting paths across insulat-
ing materials or change impedance characteristics of electronic circuits.

Physical limitations

There are various physical limitations, either natural or man-made, which must
be considered by the designer. They are:

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 365 ---
344 Basic ship theory

(a) Depth of water available

The draught of the ship including any projections below keel level must not
exceed the minimum depth of water available at any time during service. This
depth may be dictated by the need to negotiate rivers, canals, harbour or dock
entrances. If the vessel has to operate for any distance in shallow water, the
increased resistance which occurs in these conditions must be taken into
account. Various empirical formulae exist for estimating the depth of water
needed to avoid loss of speed. One is:

VT

Depth in fathoms > 3.02
(L)?

where 7 and L are in metres and V is in knots.

Allowance must be made for the sinkage and trim that will occur. For
example, a large ship drawing say 7.5m of water may strike bottom in 8.5m
of water if it attempts to negotiate the shallows too quickly.

(b) Width of water available

This is usually limited by the need to negotiate canals, harbour or dock
entrances. As with shallow water the ship is acted upon by additional inter-
ference forces when negotiating narrow stretches at speed. It may be necessary
to adopt special manoeuvring devices for ships habitually operating in confined
waters.

(c) Height available above the water line

Most ships have, at one time or another, to pass below bridges in entering
ports. Unless the bridge itself can be opened, the ship must either keep masts
and funnels below the level of the bridge or the uppermost sections must be
capable of being lowered. Tidal variations must be catered for.

(d) Length
The length of a ship may be limited by the building slips, fitting-out berths and
docks available or by the length of canal lock or harbour dimensions.

The internal environment

A full study must embrace all those aspects of the environment which affect the
efficiency of equipment and/or the crew. Thus it must include

(a) Movement. The ship is an elastic body acted on by a series of external
forces. A thorough study should deal with the vital ship response in an
integrated way. In practice it is usual to deal separately with the response of
the ship as a rigid body (ship motions), as an elastic body (vibrations) and
under impulsive loading (wave impact, collision or enemy action). The last
item is dealt with in Chapter 5.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 366 ---
The ship environment and human factors 345

(5) Ambient conditions including quality of air (temperature, humidity, fresh-
ness), noise levels (from machinery, sea, wind) and lighting levels. In some
spaces the levels of the ambient conditions will be more critical than in
others. This may dictate layout or special environmental control systems.

Motions

The study of ship motions per se is considered in Chapter 12. As far as the ship
itself is concerned, the designer is concerned with the effects on the structure,
equipment and crew.

For structure and equipment it is often sufficient to consider certain limiting
conditions of amplitude and frequency for design purposes when associated
with a factor of safety based upon previous successful design. More strictly, any
amplitudes of motion should be associated with the probability of their occur-
rence during the life of a ship.

To avoid overdesign, it is usual to consider two sets of motion figures; those
under which equipment should be capable of meeting its specification fully, and
a second set in which the equipment must be able to function albeit with
reduced performance. Again, certain equipment needs only to function in
certain limited sea states, e.g. that associated with transfer of stores between
two ships at sea.

Typical figures for which equipment must remain secure and able to operate
without degradation are given in Table 9.21 for a medium size warship. Figures
for acceleration are taken to be 1.5 times those calculated assuming simple
harmonic motion. They are based on Sea State 7.

Table 9.21

Roll Pitch Yaw  Heave
Period (s) 10 5-65 7
Amplitude (+) 18° 8° 3.5m
Acceleration (o/s?) 1.75

As regards effects on the crew, most people have felt nausea when subject to
large motion amplitudes, having earlier experienced a reduction in mental
alertness and concentration. Whilst the underlying cause is reasonably clear
surprisingly little is known about the degree of degradation suffered and the
motions which contribute most to this degradation. The subject assumes
greater significance for modern ships with smaller complements and more
complex systems requiring greater mental capability. For warships the prob-
lems are compounded by the desire to go to smaller ships which, for conven-
tional hull forms at least, implies larger motion amplitudes.

It is the effect that motions have on the vestibula and labyrinthine systems of
the human body that causes the feelings of nausea. In one interesting experi-
ment carried out by the US Coastguard, a number of ‘labyrinthine defectives’
were subject to very severe motion conditions. None of these subjects vomited

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 367 ---
346 Basic ship theory

although normal subjects in the same situation all did. All the stimulants
believed to be relevant to inducing nausea in subjects were present including
fear for own safety and witnessing others being sick.

What is not clear is which motions (roll, pitch) and which aspects of those
motions (amplitude, velocity, acceleration) have most effect. It appears that
linear or angular accelerations provide the best correlation between motion and
sickness, the linear acceleration being caused mainly by a combination of pitch
and heave with a smaller contribution from roll and the most significant
angular acceleration being that due to roll. Frequency of motion is a vital
factor (see Fig. 9.26).

Motion Sickness Incidence [%]

Fig. 9.26 Motion sickness incidence

A number of steps can be taken to mitigate the effects of motion. Drugs can
suppress feelings of nausea although it is not clear whether the side effects, such
as drowsiness, mean the person is any better on balance in carrying out some
complex mental task. The ship designer can arrange for vital human operations
to be arranged in an area of minimum motion or for the operators to be in a
prone position. The designer could even provide a stabilized platform but all
these imply some offsetting disadvantage in the overall design and therefore
some objective means of judging the ‘trade-offs’ is needed. These are not yet
available but the problem is receiving increasing attention.

Motions may cause not only a fall off in human abilities but also make a task
itself physically more difficult. Thus moving heavy weights about the ship,
during a replenishment at sea operation, say, is made more difficult and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 368 ---
The ship environment and human factors 347

dangerous. The designer is normally expected to design for such operations up
to some limiting sea state. See also Chapter 12.

The air

If no action were taken to modify the air in a closed compartment within the
ship, what would happen? Consider the case where people and heat producing
equipment are both present. Then:

(a) due to the people and equipment the temperature within the space would
rise steadily until the heat passing through the compartment boundaries
matched the heat input from within;

(5) due to the moisture breathed out by the people the moisture content of the
air would increase;

(c) due to the people breathing, the oxygen content would decrease and the
carbon dioxide content increase;

(d) due to the movement of the people dust would be created;

(e) smells would be produced.

Put briefly, the temperature, humidity, chemical purity and physical purity
are changed. Complete air conditioning therefore involves control of all these
factors. Only in special cases, such as the submarine, is the chemical purity of
the air controlled by using special means to produce new oxygen and absorb the
carbon dioxide, although in all surface ships a certain minimum quantity of
fresh air is introduced to partly control the chemical balance. This is typically
about 0.3 m} of fresh air per person per minute. In general, the physical purity
is only controlled within broad limits by filters in air distribution systems.
Exceptions to these may be special ‘clean’ workshops or operating theatres.
With only one device, namely cooling, to effect control of both temperature and
humidity some compromise between the two is necessary. More precise control
of both can be effected by cooling in conjunction with after-warming. This is
discussed more fully in Chapter 14.

Temperature is measured by means of a thermometer in degrees Celsius
(Centigrade) (°C). Pure water freezes at 0°C and boils at 100°C at sea level.

It is a common experience, that the sunny side of a house feels warmer than
the side in shade. This is because the body feels not only the warmth of the
surrounding air but also the warmth of the sun’s radiation. To define tempera-
ture precisely it is necessary to distinguish between these two. The dry bulb
temperature is that measured in still air by a thermometer which is unaffected by
radiated heat. To measure the effect of radiated heat a special device known as
a globe thermometer is used. In this, the conventional thermometer is enclosed
in a black sphere. This device records the globe temperature.

Another common experience is that one feels chilly in wet clothing. This is
because the water, as it evaporates, absorbs heat from the body. This effect is
measured by the wet bulb temperature which is that recorded by a thermometer

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 369 ---
348 Basic ship theory

with its bulb covered by wet muslin and subject to a moving air stream. It
follows, that the wet bulb temperature can never be higher than the dry bulb
and will, in general, be lower. Air can only hold a certain quantity of water
vapour at a given temperature. The higher its moisture content the slower the
rate of water evaporation from a wet body and the closer the wet bulb
temperature will approach the dry bulb measurement.

Thus, the amount of water vapour present is important in relation to the
maximum amount the air can contain at that temperature. This ratio is known
as the relative humidity. The ability of air to hold water vapour increases with
increasing temperature. If the temperature of a given sample of air is lowered,
there comes a time when the air becomes saturated and further reduction
leads to condensation. The temperature at which this happens is known as
the dew point for that sample of air. If a cold water pipe has a temperature
below the dew point of the air in the compartment, water will condense out on
the pipe. This is why chilled waterpipes are lagged if dripping cannot be
tolerated.

Since a human being’s comfort depends upon temperature, humidity and air
movement, it is difficult to define comfort in terms of a single parameter. For a
given air state, an effective temperature is defined as the temperature of still,
saturated air which produces the same state of comfort.

When a kettle of water is heated, the temperature rises at first and then
remains constant (at 100°C) while the water is turned into steam. To distinguish
between these two conditions, heat which causes only a temperature change is
called sensible heat (i.e. it is clearly detectable) and heat which causes only a
change of state is called /atent heat (i.e. hidden heat). The sum of these two
heats is known as the total heat. The unit used to measure heat is the joule.

This section covers briefly the basic definitions associated with air condition-
ing comfort. These are put to use in the design of an air conditioning system in
Chapter 14.

Lighting

There is a clear need for certain compartments to have a minimum level of
illumination in order that work in them can be carried out efficiently.

Light is an electromagnetic radiation and the eye responds to radiation in
that part of the spectrum between 7600 A and 3800A. In this, A stands for
angstrom which is a wave-length of 10~!° m. The energy of the radiation can be
expressed in terms of watts per unit area but the eye does not respond equally to
all frequencies. Response is greater to greens and yellows than to reds and
blues. Initially, wax candles were used as standards for illumination. A /umen
(Im) is the amount of luminous energy falling per unit area per second on a
sphere of unit radius from a point source of one candle-power situated at the
centre of the sphere. The intensity of illumination is defined by:

11m/m? = | lux = | metre-candle

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 370 ---
The ship environment and human factors 349

Suggested standards of illumination for merchant ships are given in Table 9.22.

Table 9.22

Suggested standards of illumination

Space Im/m? Space Im/m?
Passenger cabins 75 Nursery 108
Dining rooms 108-161 Engine rooms 161-215
Lounges 75-108 Boiler rooms 108
Passageways 22-54 Galleys 161
Toilets 75 Laundries 161
Shops 215 Store-rooms 75

Standards used within the UK Ministry of Defence are given in Table 9.23
ocal figures relate to desk tops, instrument dials, etc. Special fittings are used in
dangerous areas such as magazines, paint shops, etc., and an emergency system
of red lighting is also provided. In darkened ship conditions, only this red
ighting is used over much of the ship so as not to impair night vision.

In some ships, lighting may be regarded as merely a necessary service but in
arge ships and particularly in passenger liners, lighting can have a considerable
influence on atmosphere. This can be especially important in the public rooms,
and shipowners often enlist the services of lighting engineers and designers.
Light intensity and colour is important and also the design of the light fittings
hemselves and their arrangement, e.g. it is essential to avoid glare.

Table 9.23
Lighting standards, RN ships
Space Level of illumination (lux)
General Local
Accommodation spaces 150 300
Machinery spaces 100 300
Galley, bakery 100 200
Workshops 150 400
Magazines 150 300
Stores, general 100 300
Switchboards 150 300
Bathrooms 100 —
Dental clinic 200 400

Economic considerations lead to a desire to rationalize light fittings through-
out the major part of the ship and suggests that a 230 volt, 60 hertz unearthed
system will become standard for merchant ships. The Ministry of Defence
favours a three wire 115/0/115 volt, 60 hertz, unearthed system which provides
a very flexible system with the choice of 115 or 230volts to suit electrical
demands of all sorts, including lighting.

In deciding upon the type of light fitting, it is necessary to consider the
efficiency of the appliance, its probable life and the effect it will have on the
general lighting system. Efficiency is important in air-conditioned spaces as less

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 371 ---
350 Basic ship theory

heat is generated in the production of a given light intensity. Fluorescent
lighting is fitted in all important, regularly used, compartments in RN ships.
The levels of illumination achieved can be expected to drop by 30 per cent over
time due to the slow deterioration of the reflectance of bulkheads etc. and
within the light fitting itself.

Table 9.24

Efficiency and life of light fittings

Type of fitting Efficiency (Im/W) Life (hr)
Single coil tungsten 8-20 1000
Tungsten-quartz iodine 22 2000
Fluorescent 24-66 5000

Cold cathode 10-40 30,000

Vibration and noise

Vibration theory is dealt with in many textbooks. In the present context, it is
sufficient to point out that the ship is an elastic structure containing a number
of discreet masses and, as such, it will vibrate when subject to a periodic force.

VIBRATION

Ships must be designed to provide a suitable environment for continuous and
efficient working of equipment and in which the crew can perform comfortably,
efficiently and safely. Criteria relating to the evaluation of vibration in mer-
chant ships is laid down in British Standards and International Standards as are
tolerance to whole-body vibration.

EXCITATION

Periodic forces causing excitation can arise from:

The propulsion system. Misalignment of shafts and propeller imbalance can
cause forces at a frequency equal to the shaft revolutions. Forces should be
small with modern production methods. Because it operates in a non-uniform
flow the propeller is subject to forces at blade rate frequency — shaft revs x
number of blades. These are unlikely to be of concern unless there is resonance
with the shafting system or ship structure. Even in a uniform flow a propulsor
induces pressure variations in the surrounding water and on the ship’s hull in the
vicinity. The variations are more pronounced in non-uniform flow particularly
if cavitation occurs. If cavitation is fairly stable over a relatively large arc it
represents in effect an increase in blade thickness and the blade rate pressures
increase accordingly. If cavitation is unstable pressure amplitudes may be many
times greater. Whilst the number of blades is important to the frequency it has
little effect on pressure amplitude. The probability of vibration problems in
single screw ships can be reduced by using bulbous or U-rather than V-sections

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 372 ---
The ship environment and human factors 351

in the after body, avoiding near horizontal buttock lines above the propeller,
providing good tip clearance between propeller and hull, avoiding shallow immer-
sion of the propeller tips to reduce the possibility of air drawing and avoiding low
cavitation numbers. Generally the wake distribution in twin screw ships is less
likely to cause vibration problems. If A-brackets are used, the angle between their
arms must not be the same as that between the propeller blades.

Wave forces. A ship in waves is subject to varying pressures around its hull. The
ship’s rigid body responses are dealt with in Chapter 12. Because the hull is
elastic some of the wave energy is transferred to the hull causing main hull and
ocal vibrations. They are usually classified as springing or whipping vibrations.
The former is a fairly continuous and steady vibration in the fundamental hull
mode due to the general pressure field acting on the hull. The latter is a transient
vibration caused by slamming or shipping green seas. Generally vertical vibra-
ions are most important because the vertical components of wave forces are
dominant. However, horizontal and torsional vibrations can be important in
ships with large openings or of relatively light scantlings, e.g. container ships or
ight carriers. The additional bending stresses due to vibration may be signifi-
cant in fatigue because of the frequency, and the stresses caused by whipping
can be of the same order of magnitude as the wave bending stresses.

Machinery. Rotating machinery such as turbines and electric motors generally
produce forces which are of low magnitude and relatively high frequency.
Reciprocating machinery on the other hand produces larger magnitude forces
of lower frequency. Large diesels are likely to pose the most serious problems
particularly where, probably for economic reasons, 4 or 5 cylinder engines are
chosen with their large unbalance forces at frequencies equal to the product of
he running speed and number of cylinders. Auxiliary diesels are a source of
ocal vibrations. Vibration forces transmitted to the ship’s structure can be
much reduced by flexible mounting systems. In more critical cases vibration
neutralizers can be fitted in the form of sprung and damped weights which
absorb energy, or active systems can be used which generate forces equal but
anti-phase to the disturbing forces.

RESPONSES

As with any vibratory phenomenon, the response of the ship, or part of the
ship, to an exciting force depends upon the frequency of the excitation com-
pared with the natural frequency of the structure and the damping present as
indicated in Fig. 9.27.

In this figure, the magnification Q is defined as

dynamic response amplitude
static response amplitude

Q

and w/wp is the ratio of the frequency of the applied disturbance to the natural
frequency of the structure. It should be noted, that the most serious vibrations
occur when the natural frequency of the structure is close to that of the applied
force, i.e. at resonance.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 373 ---
352 Basic ship theory

Magnification factor @

° 02 04 O6 08 10 12 14 16 8
Tuning factor A =weAud

Fig. 9.27 Magnification factor

Node
4

a ~2nodes

en re 3 nodes

ee 4 nodes

Fig. 9.28 Modes of vertical vibration

The response by the ship may be as a whole or ina local area or piece of structure.
In the former case the ship responds to the exciting forces by vibrating as a free-
free beam. In this type of vibration, certain points along the length suffer no
displacement and these points are called nodes. The term anti-nodes is used for the
points of maximum displacement between nodes. The hull can vibrate in different
ways, or modes, involving 1, 2, 3, 4 or more nodes (Fig. 9.28), although the single
node mode applies only to torsional vibration. The natural frequency of the
vibration increases as the number of nodes increases as is discussed later.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 374 ---
The ship environment and human factors 353

There is little that a designer can do to prevent this free-free vibration and

here is little that can be done to alter the frequencies at which the resonances
occur. Their existence must be recognized, however, and the critical frequencies
calculated so that an endeavour can be made to avoid any exciting forces at
hese values. Often, a Master gets to know when to drive fast through such a
problem.
The figures given in Fig. 9.29 and Table 9.25 relate specifically to the vertical
vibration. Figure 9.29 is intended to be used for evaluating hull and superstruc-
ure vibration indicating where adverse comment is to expected. It is applicable to
urbine and diesel driven merchant ships 100 m long and longer. It is not intended
o establish vibration criteria for acceptance or testing of machinery or equip-
ment. The figures in the third column of Table 9.25 are used to evaluate the
responses of equipments and detect resonances which the designer will endeavour
o design out. Resonances are considered significant when the dynamic magnifi-
cation factor, Q, exceeds 3. The endurance tests are then conducted at the fixed
requencies shown in the fourth column plus any frequencies, determined by the
response tests, giving rise to significant resonances which the designer was unable
o eliminate. Transverse vibration will generally be rather less, but for design
purposes is usually assumed equal to it. Fore and aft vibration amplitudes are
generally insignificant except at the masthead position, but even here they are low
compared with the vertical and transverse levels. The remaining vibratory
mode—the torsional—is not common and there is not a lot of available evidence
on its magnitude.

Table 9.25
Vibration response and endurance test levels for surface warships
Ship type Region Standard test level Endurance tests

Peak values and
frequency range

Minesweeper size and above Masthead 1.25mm, 5 to 14Hz 1.25mm, 14Hz
0.3mm, 14 to 23 Hz 0.3mm, 23 Hz
0.125mm, 23 to 33 Hz 0.125mm, 33 Hz

Each | hour
Main 0.125mm, 5 to 33 Hz 0.125mm, 33 Hz
For 3 hours
Smaller than minesweeper Masthead 0.2mm or a velocity of 0.2mm, 50 Hz
and main 63 mm/s whichever is less
7 to 300 Hz
For 3 hours
Aftermost 0.4mm or a velocity of 0.4mm, 24 Hz
1/8 of ship 60 mm/s whichever is less
length 7 to 300 Hz
For 3 hours
Notes:

1. The masthead region is that part of the ship above the main hull and superstructure.
2. The main hull includes the upper deck, internal compartments and the hull.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 375 ---
354 Basic ship theory

€ ¢
5x10? mm/s 28 SS
10° mm/s?
2
10? mmis|— €
N
s
RS)
A wo
2 Xe, Adverse comment
3 % 2 probable
$ ENS
Ra! ‘2 10* mmis®
10 mmis
8 9mmis ,C of
///)*
4_mmis
G
Adverse comments
not probable
a %
1 mvs Png
5x 107! mmis! -
1 5 10 ‘Oe 100
Frequency (Hz) on

Fig. 9.29 Guidelines for the evaluation of vertical and horizontal vibration in merchant ships (peak
values )

The local response of the ship, due either to ship girder vibration or direct
resonance with the disturbing forces, is curable and is therefore of less vital
interest. A deck, bulkhead, fitting or panel of plating may vibrate. Considering
all the possible vibratory systems in local structures, it is impossible to avoid
some resonances with the exciting forces. Equally, it is impossible to calculate
all the frequencies likely to be present. All the designer can do is select for
calculation those areas where vibration would be particularly obnoxious; for
the rest, troubles will be shown up on trial and can be cured by local stiffening,
although this is an inconveniently late stage.

BODY RESPONSE

The human body responds to the acceleration rather than the amplitude and
frequency of vibration imposed upon it. Humans can also be upset by vibra-
tions of objects in their field of view, e.g. by a VDU which they need to monitor.
Fig. 9.30 is concerned with vibrations transmitted to the body through a
supporting surface such as feet or buttocks. The limits shown in Fig. 9.30 relate
to vibration at the point of contact with the subject. Thus for a seated person

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 376 ---
355

The ship environment and human factors

Aappunog ajyfod paspaszap—ansiy{, ‘aut) ainsodxa puv Aguanbalf fo uoyjoun{ p sp sy

ZH ‘pug 8aD420-puiyy Jo A2uanbasy auyua Jo Aauenbau4
08 69 0S 07 SIE SZ 02 M8 SU OO 08 £9 OS OF SHE SZ OZ 91 SZ OL BO £90 SO 70 910-0

TH | 7 We "0
4 ub S20
L Udy BsyeASUDJ, ~——— 4 += F 0
L usdy joUuIpnyi6u07 4OL Zz
Fz —48 0z-0
+ S70
748 7
> uy +— si€E-0
KE + == 400
~ 47 “sz t— 50
C aa usz tt €9.0
4 .
- a ae Z = h zB
o 8B
Z Za 4 us? «2 Hy
7 4 7 Cory bog
4 att] >
an 4 1 wwisz Z P, 4 OL 3
a UWg) Ua ot tT 07 2
7T &
o2 YZ 2
7| 7 my 7 v4
4 Z ¢
Z 4a74e :
oe 0
i— a pt} } 1 Jo
£9
ie Z | | 08
Z A
4 Z 4 | o
VIZ sz
4 7 | t | 1
G | | 0


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 377 ---
356 Basic ship theory

they refer to the vibration transmitted through the cushion. In working from
the basic ship structure vibration levels allowance must be made for the
transmission properties of anything, e.g. the chair, between the structure and
the subject. The curves are presented as r.m.s. acceleration against frequency
and refer to exposure times beyond which there is likely to be a decrease in
proficiency particularly in carrying out tasks where fatigue is likely to be a
significant factor. The limiting accelerations at which humans are likely to
experience some discomfort can be obtained by dividing the accelerations from
Fig. 9.30 by 3.15 (i.e. they are 10dB lower) and those for maximum safe
exposure are double those in Fig. 9.30 (i.e. 6dB higher). The figures apply to
each 24 hour period.

The accelerations are related to orthogonal axes with origin at the heart. The
‘longitudinal’ acceleration is in the line from foot (or buttock) to head. ‘Trans-
verse’ accelerations are those from the chest to the back and from right to left
side. In using the limiting curve, it is recommended that

(a) if vibration occurs simultaneously at more than one discrete frequency or
in more than one direction the r.m.s. acceleration of each component shall
be evaluated separately with reference to the appropriate limits;

(5) for vibration concentrated in a third-octave band or less the r.m.s. accel-
eration within the band shall be evaluated with reference to the appro-
priate limit at the centre frequency of the band;

(c) for broad band distributed vibration occurring in more than one third-

octave band, the r.m.s. acceleration in each such band shall be evaluated

separately with respect to the appropriate limit;

the effective total daily exposure to an interrupted constant intensity vibra-

tion is obtained by summating the individual exposure times, i.e. no

allowance is made for human recovery which is likely to occur during
pauses;

(e) where intensity varies significantly with time the total exposure is divided
into a number of exposures f; at level A;. A convenient notional A! is chosen
in the range of values 4;. If 7; is the permissible time at A; then the
equivalent time for exposure at A! is

(d

LS

T!

whereT! = permissible exposure at A!

i

The equivalent total exposure time at the notional level A! is then given by
T;

CALCULATIONS

Textbooks discuss design procedures capable of dealing with vibration prob-
lems other than those arising from wave excitation. Because of the complicated
mathematics, cost and time may limit what can be achieved in practice. In the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 378 ---
The ship environment and human factors 357

early design stages of a ship, it is more likely that use will be made of one of the
empirical formulae available.
One of the earliest empirical formulae was proposed by Schlick, viz.

ft
Frequency = (an) c.p.m.

where A = ship displacement in MN, L = length of ship in m, and 7 = moment
of inertia of the midship section including all continuous members in m‘. ¢ is a
coefficient which is best calculated from data for a ship similar to that being
designed. Typical values of ¢ for the 2-node vertical vibration are given:

Large tankers 282,000
Small trunk deck tankers 217,000
Cargo ships at about 60 per cent load displacement 243,000

For warships, with their finer lines, values of about 347,000 are more appro-
priate.

For merchant ships the fundamental frequencies of the hull are generally
arger than the encounter frequency with the waves. However, increasing size
accompanied by increased flexibility results in lowering the hull frequencies.
Taken with higher ship speeds resonances become more likely. To illustrate the
point the value of (1/AL})!/? in Schlick’s formula for a 300,000 DWT tanker
may be only a third of that of a 100,000 DWT ship.

The Schlick formula is useful for preliminary calculations but it does ignore
he effects of entrained water and is therefore only likely to give good results
where a similar ship is available. It also involves a knowledge of J which may
not be available during the early design stages. This is overcome in the Todd
ormula which can be expressed as:

Frequency = 3 BH? ‘c m
q Y= P\ ays] oPm-

where A is measured in MN and B, H and L in m.

Values of 3 were found to be

Large tankers 11,000
Small trunk deck tankers 8,150
Cargo ships at about 60 per cent load displacement 9200

If A is expressed in tonnef and linear dimensions in metres the constants,
within the accuracy of the formula, can be taken as ten times these values.

To account for the entrained water, a virtual weight A; can be used instead
of the displacement A, where

1B
a) =a(1-2457)

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 379 ---
358 Basic ship theory

Having estimated the frequency of the 2-node vibration, it is necessary to
estimate the 3-node period and so on. The theory of a vibrating uniform beam
predicts that the 3-node and 4-node vibrational frequencies should be 2.76 and
5.40 times those for the 2-node mode. It is found that in ships the ratios are
lower and for very fine ships may be 2, 3, 4, etc.

Some typical natural frequencies of hull for various ship types are given in
Table 9.26.

Table 9.26
Natural frequencies of hull for several types of ship

Type of ship Length Condition of | Frequency of vibration
(m) loading

Vertical Horizontal

2-node 3-node 4-node 5-node 2-node 3-node 4-node

Cargo ship 85 Light 150 290 230
Loaded 135 283 200
Cargo ship —-130_——Light 106-210 180 353
Loaded 85 168 135 262
Passenger ship 136 104 177 155 341
Tanker 227 Light 59 121 188 248 103 198 297
Loaded 52 108 166 220 83 159 238
Destroyer 160 Average action 85 180 240 120 200
G.M. Cruiser 220 Average action 70 130 200 100 180 270
NOISE

Noise is of growing importance both for merchant ships and warships. This
book can only introduce the subject briefly. The internationally agreed unit for
sound intensity is 10~!° watts/cm? and at 1000 hertz this is close to the thresh-
old of hearing. Due to the large range of intensity to which a human ear is
sensitive a logarithmic scale is used to denote the intensity of sound and the
usual unit in which noise levels are expressed is the decibel. If two noise
intensities are w; and w2 then the number of decibels, , denoting their ratio is

n= 10 logy a dB
Wy

As a reference level, w2 = 10~!® watts/em? is used.
Instruments measuring noise levels in air record sound pressure so that

2
Wi Pi Pi

= 101 = 101 = 201
n 810 Wo 810 (4) E105

where p is the pressure in dynes/cm? corresponding to the threshold of hear-
ing. This becomes p2 = 2 x 1075 N/m.
Thus a sound pressure level of 0.1 N/m? ad dyne/cm”) is represented by

Level in dB = 20 log 1/0 - 0002 = 74dB

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 380 ---
The ship environment and human factors 359

In the open, the sound intensity varies inversely as the square of the distance
rom the source. Hence halving the distance from the noise source increases the
level in dB by 10log4 = 6dB and doubling the distance reduces the level by
6dB. The addition of two equal sounds results in an increase of 3dB and each
0 dB increase is roughly equivalent to a doubling of the subjective loudness.

A noise typically contains many components of different frequency and these
varying frequencies can cause different reactions in the human being. In order
o define fully a given noise it is necessary, therefore, to define the level at all
requencies and this is usually achieved by plotting results as a noise spectrum.
The alternative is to express noise levels in dB(A). The A weighted decibel is a
measure of the total sound pressure modified by weighting factors, varying with
requency, reflecting a human’s subjective response to noise. People are more
sensitive to high (1000 Hz+) than low (250 Hz and less) frequencies.

Primary sources of noise are machinery, propulsors, pumps and fans. Sec-
ondary sources are fluids in systems, electrical transformers and ship motions.
Noise from a source may be transmitted through the air surrounding the source
or through the structure to which it is attached. The actions are complex since
airborne noise may excite structure on which it impacts and directly excited
structure will radiate noise to the air. Taking a propulsor as an example, much
of the noise will be transmitted into the water. That represented by pressure
fluctuations on the adjacent hull will cause the structure to vibrate transmitting
noise both into the ship and back into the water. Other transmissions will be
through the shaft and its support system.

A designer will be concerned to limit noise for two reasons:

(a) noise transmitted into the water can betray the presence of the ship, provide
a signal on which weapons can home and reduce the effectiveness of the
ship’s own sensors;

(5) internal noise levels may have effects on crew and passengers.

It is the latter effects with which we are primarily concerned here. Noise may:

(a) annoy;

(b) disturb sleep;

(c) interfere with conversation. Conversational speech at a distance of 1m
represents a noise level of about 60 dB. The greatest interference is created
by noises in the frequency range 300-5000 hertz;

(d) damage hearing. Noise levels of 130-140 dB can cause pain in the ear and
higher levels can cause physical damage;

(e) upset the normal senses, e.g. it can lead to a temporary disturbance of vision.

Thus noise effects can vary from mere annoyance, itself very important in
passenger vessels, to interference with the human being’s ability to function
efficiently and eventually can cause physical damage to the body.

A designer can apply basic acoustical calculations to ship noise estimation
and the design of noise control systems.

Various methods are available for reducing the effect of noise, the particular
method depending upon the noise source and why it is undesirable. For

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 381 ---
360 Basic ship theory

instance, the noise level within a communications office with many teleprinters
can be reduced by treating the boundary with noise absorption material. A
heavy, vibrating, machine transmitting noise through the structure can be
mounted on special noise isolating mounts, care being taken to ensure that
the mounts are not ‘short-circuited’ by pipes connected to the machine. Such
pipes must include a flexible section. Where a piece of equipment produces a
high level of air-borne noise in a compartment adjacent to an accommodation
space the common boundary can be treated with noise insulation material. For
the best results, the whole boundary of the offending compartment should be
treated to reduce the level of structure borne noise which can arise from the
impact of the pressure waves on, say, deck and deckhead.

In recent years active noise cancellation techniques have been developing. The
principle used is to generate a noise of equivalent frequency content and volume
but in anti-phase to the noise to be cancelled. Thus to cancel the noise of a funnel
exhaust a loudspeaker could be placed at the exhaust outlet. For structure borne
noise from a machine force generators could be used at the mounting.

ICE

When the temperature falls sufficiently, ice forms on the rigging and upperworks
of ships constituting a hazard, as discussed in Chapter 4. Remedial action may
also be difficult because the deck machinery itself may have been rendered
unusable by ice. As well as reducing stability, ice may hazard the whole ship by
structural damage caused by sea ice or by the icebergs which originate in glaciers.
While fresh water has its maximum density at 4°C sea water of salinity greater
than 24.7 per cent increases in density right down to its freezing point (which is
1.33 °C at 24.7 per cent salinity). Thus freezing does not occur at the surface until
the water below is also at the freezing point. Initially individual ice crystals are
formed, creating a slush. Movement of the water surface leads to the formation
of flat circular discs 30 to 100 cm in diameter with upturned rims, called pancake
ice. As the temperature drops further the discs become cemented together to form
a continuous sheet which in a typical Arctic winter reaches an average thickness
of about 3 metres. In way of pressure ridges the thickness may be much greater.
The majority of icebergs in the North Atlantic originate at the Greenland
glaciers. They vary a great deal in size but whatever the size represent a formid-
able threat to shipping, as witnessed by the Titanic. Due to their porosity, their
effective density may be appreciably less than that of pure ice and the depth
below water can vary between three and eight times their height above water.

Human Factors

The human element in design is covered by what is termed Human Factors (HF),
a full study of which involves multi-discipline teams of physiologists, psycho-
logists, engineers and scientists. The HF team can advise the naval architect on:

(i) how to design a system or equipment so that the human can perform
most effectively, so giving the greatest overall system efficiency. It is not

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 382 ---
The ship environment and human factors 361

necessarily, and in general is not, true that the maximum degree of auto-
mation is desirable. The blend of human and machine should build upon
the strengths of each and minimize the influence of any weaknesses;

(ii) in what way, and to what degree, the system efficiency will be reduced due
to degradation in the human’s performance due to the environment;

(iii) the levels of environmental parameters (e.g. noise, motions and vibrations)
which should not be exceeded if a human’s physical state is not to be
temporarily or permanently harmed. This has already been discussed in
sections above.

A designer has, or should have, always taken account of ergonomic factors.
Chairs must be comfortable, writing surfaces at the right height and so on.
What is not always appreciated is that the average statistics for the human body
are changing with time; for instance people are generally getting taller, so the
designer must use the latest available anthropological data for both men and
women.

Operators often spend hours in front of displays. HF research can do much
to make the operator’s task easier. Dials and buttons which are most frequently
consulted or activated should be most readily to hand. A digital display helps
with taking accurate readings but if the need is to monitor that the value of a
variable is below a particular figure, or lies within a given band, an analogue
display gives a quicker feel for the situation. Analogue displays also give an
appreciation of the value of a variable when it must be read at a distance.
Colour can be important. A human being is conditioned to regard red as a
danger signal and green as indicating that all is well. Some colours are restful
and can convey feelings of warmth or cold. Colour is not always beneficial in
differentiating between different levels of a parameter being displayed. It is not
immediately obvious whether blue or red represents a higher or lower value. A
human will often find a grey scale, or monochrome, presentation easier to
interpret for a single variable.

Dials and switches can be grouped into a diagrammatic display of a system,
say the fire fighting ring main, the diagram showing the distribution of the
main, location of pumps and so on. The state of valves can be readily seen if
represented by a bar—in line with the pipe if open and at right angles to it if
closed. The pump symbol can be illuminated when it is running.

In some cases an operator has a single VDU and calls up a variety of
displays, at different levels of detail, as required. The system can even decide,
in the light of data it is receiving from sensors, which display to present. For
instance if the computer senses an alarm from a system not currently being
monitored it can draw it to the attention of the appropriate operator. If it does
this it is important that the reason it has done so should be immediately
apparent to the operator. For instance, if a pump is running hot its symbol
can be made to flash and the word ‘overheating’ appear alongside.

The aim of the HF practitioner is to aid the user or maintainer of a system or
equipment. In research, a study is made of the user’s actions to deduce the
thought processes being followed. Then the displays can be arranged to present

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 383 ---
362 Basic ship theory

the data needed at any instant in a form the user will most readily comprehend.
Any system must recognize that the computer is very good at ‘number crunch-
ing’ but poor at pattern recognition. The reverse is true of human beings.
Modern technology means that sensors can measure and present more and more
data, with greater accuracy. The user may become overwhelmed by the sheer
volume of data and may not be able to utilize the level of accuracy. The system
should pre-analyse the data, in a predetermined way, to help the user. Presenta-
tion of statistical data in a meaningful way can be difficult. Many methods are
feasible but the problem lies with the user’s ability to interpret it easily. If
presented, for instance, with an ellipse on a chart-like display, the ellipse
representing the boundary within which a target has a 90% probability of
lying, the human may ignore the 10% chance that the target lies outside the
ellipse. HF research into such matters can point the way to suitable training
programmes.

It is not enough simply to study a system with a human ‘in the circuit’. This
will give an appreciation of overall performance but will not necessarily show
whether the human is performing as efficiently as could be the case. A change in
what the user is asked to do could lead to a significant increase in overall
performance by changing the balance of what is asked of the machine and the
human. Such studies must be carried out early enough for the hardware and
software to be amended. In modern systems it is often the interaction between
the user and the software that is important, rather than the interface with the
hardware.

Problems

1. Discuss the process by which sea waves are thought to be formed and the
factors on which the wave characteristics depend. What do you understand
by the term swell?

Describe the type of sea you would expect to be generated by a wind
blowing for some time in one direction. How would you describe, quantita-
tively, the resulting surface characteristics?

2. For a regular sinusoidal wave deduce expressions for speed of propagation
and period.

Calculate the speed and period of a wave 100m long. If the surface wave
height is 3m calculate the depth at which the height of the sub-surface profile
is 0.5m.

3. A wave spectrum is defined by the following table:

w(1/s) 0.20 040 0.60 0.80 1.00 1.20 1.40
Sc(w)(m2s) 0.00 7.94 11.68 5.56 2.30 0.99 0.45
w(1/s) 1.60 180 2.00 2.20

Sc(w)(m?s) 0.23 0.12 0.07 0.00

Calculate the significant wave height, average wave height and mean of
the tenth highest waves.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 384 ---
The ship environment and human factors 363

4. A large number of wave heights are recorded and on analysis it is found that
the numbers falling in various height bands are:

wave height band(m) 0-5 3-1 I-15 15-2 2-24 23-3 3-35 35-4

No. of waves 5 10 20 40 55 40 25 5

Plot these as a histogram record and deduce the normal and Rayleigh
distributions which most closely fit the measured data.
5. A 20 MN ship presents a profile as below

Fig. 9.31

Assuming that the force acting on area 4m? due to a wind of velocity V
knots is given by

Force = 0.19 V7 A newtons

calculate the force due to a nominal wind of 50 knots (i.e. as measured 6m
above the water surface) allowing for the wind gradient as defined in Fig.
9.25. Deduce the effective average wind speed.
Assuming the ship has a mean draught of 6m and a metacentric height of
1.5m calculate the approximate angle of heel due to the wind.
6. In a given wave sample, the number of waves of various heights are:

Wave height (m) 0.5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40

No. of waves 10 39 50 35 16 5 4 1

Calculate the average and significant wave height and the average of the
ipth highest waves.
7. Calculate the wave-lengths in metres and wave velocities in metres per
second corresponding to wave periods of 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 14, 18 and 20s.
8. The successive crests of the wave profile along the side of a ship at speed in
calm water are observed to be about 100m apart. What is the approximate
speed of the ship in knots? If the ship speed is reduced to 10 knots what will
the distance apart of the crests become?
9. Check the following statement:
The orbits and velocities of the particles of water are diminished by
approximately one-half for each additional depth below the mid-height of
the surface trochoid equal to one-ninth of a wave-length. For example:

Depth in fraction of wave-length 0

coe,

3
9

Proposed velocities and diameters 1

nie
+H

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 385 ---
364 Basic ship theory

10. Using empirical formulae, calculate the 2-node frequency of vibration of
the hull of a cargo ship to which the following data relates:

Displacement 7925 tonnef

Length 128m
Beam 18.3m
Depth 9.1m
Draught 6.1m

Allowance should be made for the entrained water.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 386 ---
Bibliography

References are grouped by chapter, or group of chapters, with a final listing for general
reading. Those references quoted will lead on to other useful references for the student to
pursue.

The transactions, and conference proceedings, of the learned societies are among the
main sources. Others are technical journals, research organizations and the universities.
Much information on these sources can be gleaned from the Internet.

The following abbreviations have been used, with the letter T standing for Transactions:

RINA The Royal Institution of Naval Architects (INA prior to 1960).
SNAME _ The Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers.

DTMB David Taylor Model Basin, USA.

IMO International Maritime Organisation.

HMSO Her Majesty’s Stationery Office, now the Government Bookshop.

Chapter 1, Art or science?

Lavanha, J. B. (1996) Livro primeiro da architectura naval (1598) in Portugese and
English. Academia de Marinha, Lisbon.

Lloyd’s register of Shipping. Rules and regulations for the classification of ships. (Also the
rules of other classification societies)

Chapter 2, Some tools

Nowacki, H. and Kaklis, P. D. (Eds) (1998) Creating fair and shape-preserving curves
and surfaces, B. G. Teubner Stuttgart.
Thornton, A. T. (1992) Design visualisation of yacht interiors, TRINA.

Chapter 3, Flotation and trim; Chapter 4, Stability

Burcher, R. K. (1980) The influence of hull shape on transverse stability, TRINA.

Derrett, D. R. and Barrass, C. B. (1999) Ship stability for masters and mates, Butter-
worth-Heinemann.

Sarchin, T. H. and Goldberg, L. L. (1962) Stability and buoyancy criteria for US naval
ships, TSNAME.

Chapter 5, Hazards and protection

Greenhorn, J. (1989) The assessment of surface ship vulnerability to underwater attack,
TRINA.

Hicks, A. N. (1986) Explosion induced hull whipping. Advances in Marine Structure,
Elsevier.

Chapter 6, The ship girder; Chapter 7, Structural design and analysis

Caldwell, J. B. (1965) Ultimate longitudinal strength, TRINA.
Chalmers, D. W. (1993) Design of ship’s structures, HMSO.

365

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 387 ---
366 Bibliography

Clarkson, J. (1965) The elastic analysis of flat grillages, Cambridge University Press.

Faulkner, D. and Sadden, J. A. (1979) Towards a unified approach to ship structural
safety, TRINA.

Faulkner, D. and Williams, R. A. (1996) Design for abnormal ocean waves, TRINA.

Petershagen, H. (1986) Fatigue problems in ship structures, Advances in Marine Struc-
ture, Elsevier.

Smith, C. S. et al (1992, and earlier papers) Strength of stiffened plating under combined
compression and lateral pressure, TRINA.

Somerville, W. L., Swan, J. and Clarke, J. D. (1977) Measurements of residual stress and
distortions in stiffened panels, Journal of Strain Analysis.

Southwell, R. (1940) Relaxation methods in engineering sciences, Oxford University
Press.

Sumpter, J. D. G. (1986) Design against fracture in welded structures, Advances in
Marine Structure, Elsevier.

Chapter 9, The ship environment and human factors

Guide for the evaluation of human exposure to whole-body vibration, JSO 2631.

Hogben, N. and Lumb, F. E. (1967) Ocean wave statistics, HMSO.

Hogben, N., Dacunha, N. M. C. and Oliver, G. F. (1986) Global wave statistics, British
Maritime Technology Ltd.

Overall evaluation of vibration in merchant ships, BS6634, HMSO.

General

Merchant Shipping (Passenger Ship Construction and Survey) Regulations, HMSO.
Merchant Shipping (Fire Appliances) Regulations, HMSO.

Merchant Shipping (Life Saving Appliances) Regulations, HMSO.

Merchant Shipping (Grain) Regulations, HMSO.

Merchant Shipping (Dangerous Goods) Regulations, HMSO.

Merchant Shipping (Crew accommodation) Regulations, HMSO.

Merchant Shipping (Tonnage) Regulations, HMSO.

International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code, JMO.

MARPOL, Regulations and Guidelines, JMO.

SOLAS, Regulations and Guidelines, JMO.

Bishop, R. E. D. and Price, W. G. (1979) Hydroelasticity of ships, Cambridge University
Press.

Friedman, N. (1979) Modern warship design and development, Conway.

Kuo, C. (1998) Managing ship safety, LLP Ltd.

Nishida, S. (1992) Failure analysis in engineering applications, Butterworth-Heinemann.

Schneekluth, H. and Bertram, V. (1998) Ship design for efficiency and economy, Butter-
worth-Heinemann.

Taylor, D. A. (1996) Introduction to marine engineering revised, Butterworth-Heinemann.

Tupper, E. C. (2000) An introduction to naval architecture, Butterworth-Heinemann.

Watson, D. G. M. (1998) Practical ship design, Elsevier Ocean Engineering Book Series.

Significant ships. Annual publication of the RINA reviewing some of the ships entering
service.

Some useful web sites

Much useful data can be gleaned from the Internet. As an example, the RINA makes
available all its technical papers which are issued for discussion. Other sites give details

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 388 ---
Bibliography 367

of the facilities at various research establishments. The Lloyds Register site gives
information on the software they have available.

The following are some sites the student may find helpful. Many others relating to
shipbuilders and equipment manufacturers, are regularly contained in the advertise-
ments in technical publications, such as The Naval Architect which is the journal of the
RINA.

Learned societies

Royal Institution of Naval Architects www.rind.org
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, USA www.sname.org
Institute of Marine Engineers www.imare.org.uk
The Nautical Institute www.nautinst.org

International and Government organizations

International Maritime Organisation www.imo.org

Dept. of the Environment, Transport and the Regions www.detr.gov.uk

UK Maritime & Coastguard Agency www.mcagency.org.uk
US Coast Guard www.uscg.mil

Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (UK)
MARIN (Netherlands)
David Taylor Model Basin (USA)

Classification Societies

International Association of Classification Societies
American Bureau of Shipping

Bureau Veritas

China Classification Society

Det Norske Veritas

Germanischer Lloyd

Korean Register of Shipping

Lloyds Register of Shipping

Nippon Kaiji Kyokai

Registro Italiano Navale

Russian Maritime Register of Shipping

www.dera.gov.uk
www.marin.nl
www50.dt.navy

www.iacs.org.uk
www.eagle.org
.veristar.com
s.org.cn
www.dnv.com
www.GermanLloyd.org
yw.krs.co.kr
r.org
classnk.or.jp
na.it
-head.spb.ru/

www.rs.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 389 ---
Answers to problems

Chapter 2

18.
19.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

CIADNRWNS

. 0.73, 0.80, 0.97, 3.70 m.
. 8771 tonnef, 86.1 x 10° newtons, 103 m’, 0.722.
. 0.785, 0.333, 0.500.

146.25 m’, 145.69 m, 1.0039.
2048 m?.
1.2 per cent low, 0.46 per cent low.

. 9.33 m?, 0.705 MN.

. 5286m?, 1.65m abaft 6 ord.

. 2306 tonnef, 16.92 m above 10 ord.
. 403 tonnes.

. 36,717 m?, 4.85 m, 5.14m.

. 243,500 m4, 23,400 m4.

. 182.2 x 10°m4,

. 39.42 m, 48.17 m.

. 55.4KN, 8.50 m.

. 3.12m.

. (a) 539.3 (Simpson 2), 561.0 (trap).

(b) 278.7 (Simpson 58-1), 290.0 (trap).

0.41 per cent.

M = {/?(y) + 6y2 + 12y3 + 18y4 +--+) about 1 ord.

(a) 2.09440, (b) 1.97714, (c) 2.00139, (d) 2.00000 correct.
(a) 201.06, (b) 197.33, (c) 199.75, (d) 200.59, (e) 200.51.
(a) 141.42, (b) 158.93, (c) 158.02, (d) 157.08 correct.

(a) 23.37, (b) 11.36.

(a) 4.37, (b) 7.23, (c) 9.3 per cent.

Chapter 3

PANDA YNS

. (@) 146, (b) 544.

4.94m.
242 m3, 0.12 m?/tonnef.

Approx 3cm below keel.
9 degrees.
21m.

. 535MN, 4.1m below 1WL (1331 Rule).
. 39,650 tonnef, 4.34m below 1 WL.

. 0.27m below 24 WL.

. 3.83m, 5.65m.

. 5.94m. abaft amidships, 6.71 m.

368

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 390 ---
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Answers to problems

4.39 m.

4.21 m forward, 4.70 m aft.

11.4m forward, 12.3 m aft.

1.34, 1.65m.

3.704 m, 2.744 m.

3.72 MN, 4.06 m, 5.06 m.

1.95 hours, 0.92 m, 3.56 m.

(a) 2388 tonnef, 3.36 m aft of amidships, (>) 208 tonnef, 3.58 m.
3.77 m fwd, 4.33 m aft.

3.22 m, 4.44m.

9.22 m forward, 9.28 m aft.

8847 m?, 2.76 m.

115.8 MN.

12.86 m before amidships, 2.74 m, 2.66 m.

Chapter 4

WW kRwwWNYNYNnYYNYNNYNNY Yer reer er ees
ROSASSSIADRESSASSHIAGDESH OS

SPANDMAPYWND

1.972 m, 0.536m, 1.047 m.

3875 tonnefm, 1252 tonnefm, 15.6 degrees.
2.05m, 1.99m.

2.1m, 15.4m.

2.9cm.

0.977.

1°27’.

- 4.388 m.

LPT.

90 degrees.

. 2.39m, 27.13 m.

1.25m.
0.927 m.
1.44m.
1°22’.

. 0.21m.
- 0.28m.
. 3.28m.
. 45 degrees.

. 0.37m.

. (a) 70.4°, (b) 84.9°, (c) 87.1°, (d) 95.5°.
. 74MI.

. 2.60, 1.035: 1.

. 0.67m.

0.47 m.

. 2.53m, 2.82 m, 0.09 m, 4.57m, 75.5°.

0.509 m, 0.49 m.

. —0.43 m.

369

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 391 ---
370 Answers to problems

Chapter 5

1.
2.
3.

Sernaws

1
1
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

PAAMPwWN

9.
10.
ll.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

1.73 m port, 2.99 m starboard.

13.25 m, 2.92m.

288 tonnef, 4.70 m, 5.83 m; 6.23 m, 5.81 m.

20,740 tonnefm, 10° 37’, 93.31 m (added weight), 91.58 m (lost buoyancy).
(i) 170 tonnef, (ii) 0.63 m, (iii) 0.59 m.

(a) 4.09 m, (b) 3.42 m, (c) 0.79m.

7.06 m, 4.92 m forward; 4.33 m, 2.20 m aft.

1.70 m.

9.70 m, +0.98 m.

40 tonnef, 94 tonnef, 22 cm.

3
. 103 degrees.

1.8 degrees.

53 tonnef, 1 4 degrees.

4.26m.

4.63 min.

Starboard hit 40 per cent, 224 per cent; Port hit 40 per cent, 10 per cent.

Chapter 6

. 35.7m from fore end, 486 tonnef/m.

SF, 0.21L from end = W/10.4; BM amidships = WL/32.
Max. SF., 30.75 tonnef; max BM, 132.6 tonnef/m.

SF, 48 tonnef 30m from ends; BM 960 tonnef/m amidships.
Max. SF, 690 tonnef; max. BM, 13,000 tonnef/m.
16mm.

SF, 714 tonnef at 3/4; BM 24,500 tonnef m at 5/6.
113.5 pascals.

55.3 and 65.5 MPa.

op, 93.7 MPa, ox, 56.7 MPa.

35.

zp, 1.59m*; zg, 1.22 m*; op, 71 MPa; ox, 93 MPa.

op, 40 MPa; ox 58 MPa.

52cm’.

57.5, 42.2, 19.7 MPa.

42.9, 42.9, 33.2 MPa.

6M/WL = 0.144 and 0.115.

20cm?

19mm.

131 MPa, 0.3 degrees.

55mm approx.

Chapter 7

NaywPenNeo

260 MPa.
7700.cm?, 14,800 cm?.

(a) 1:2.92, (b) 1:2.20.

(a) 2664 cm*, (b) 7.4mm.
18mm.

4.45 tonnef.

74cm.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 392 ---
Chapter 8

_

RenNnroeex

_

DAwPwne

Answers to problems 371

(a) 20mm, (6) 8mm.

(a) 0.112 MPa, (b) 0.035 MPa, (c) 5.7mm.

(a) 0.11, (6) 0.73, (c) 0.22, (d) 0.40 MPa.

(a) 2.0, (b) 1.17.

90 MPa.

41.7 MPa, in rib at deck edge.

Mea = 420, Map = 840, Mga = 27,300, Mur = 8480, Myc = 35,760,
Mrp = 2120 Nm.

Map = 0.77, Mpc = 3.07, Mcp = 12.36, Mcg = 2.07, Mcp = 14.43,
Moc = 1.02 tonnef/m.

0.03 MN.
Torque 15.9 tonnef/m; BM = 237 tonnef/m.
554mm, 11.56kW.

75.5m, 7.7MN, 0.19 N/mm?.

18.36, 14.31 fwd, 22.41 aft tonnef/m?.

—2.38 m forward, 6.91 m aft.

8.7m.

(a) 97m, (b) 1,480 tonnef, (c) 41,000 tonnef/m.

(a) lift at 144m (5) max. force on FP 7,950 tonnef, (c) min tip mt. 700,000 tonnef/m,
(d) floats off.

Max. BM, 184,000 tonnef/m; max. SF, 439 tonnef.

(a) 16.2m, (6) 1500 tonnef, (c) 57,000 tonnef/m.

Chapter 9

1.
2.
3.

12.5 m/s, 8.0 s, 28.5m.
4.85m, 3.03 m, 6.19m.

arr

1
PO) = TapgexP 1.18

(x) = Soexp{
POD = 538%) 10.75 f°

0.16 MN, 41 knots, 1° 35’.

1.64m, 2.40m, 3.00 m.

1.56, 1.56; 6.2, 3.1; 25, 6.2; 56, 9.4; 100, 12.5; 156, 15.6; 306, 21.8; 506, 28.1; 625,
31.2.

24.3 knots, 16.96 m.

57.5 ¢.p.m.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 393 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 394 ---
Index

0.607 /L wave 181
3, 10 minus one rule 29

abnormal waves 171, 327
accretion of ice 343, 360
added weight method 148
addition of weight 66
additions to section modulus 196
after perpendicular 9
air 340, 347
Albuera 206
ambient air 340
American Bureau of Shipping 4
amidships 9
analogue computers 38
anchoring 161
angle of loll 115, 154
angstrom (A) 348
anti-nodes 352
AP (after perpendicular) 9
approximate formulae 39
BM 39
longitudinal strength 203
VCB 39
vibration 357
approximate integration 22
arched rib analysis 259, 267
Archimedes’ principle 53, 72
arctic extremes 341
areas, curve of 11
arresting cracks 224
artificial intelligence 37
Association Technique Maritime et
Aéronautique 6
assumed neutral axis 189
Atwood’s formula 105
automated draughting equipment 37

bacteria 168, 343

balance, longitudinal 179, 183
B, M, F & Z Surfaces 117

bar xvii, 52

Barnes’ method 109

Beaufort scale 338

bending moment, longitudinal 185
bending stresses 191
Bernouilli—Euler hypothesis 240
berthing 158

bilging 70, 145

biological agents 347

blast 165

block coefficient 12

blocks, dock 297

BM_ 20, 39

body plan 8

body responses 351, 354

Bonjean curves 12, 70, 183, 289
Bouguer 1

box girders 193, 201, 214
brackets 266

breakage 294, 298

Bretschneider spectrum 324
brittle fracture 220, 224

Bruce 206

Btu (British Thermal Unit) xvii
buckling 177, 189, 215, 238, 255, 278
built-in stresses 207, 214, 222, 277
bulk carriers 163

bulkhead deck 146, 155
buoyancy 54, 56, 178

buoyancy curve 178, 183

Bureau Veritas 4

cable, chain 161
camber 11, 289
candela (cd) xvi
Captain 4
careening 295
cargo shift 163
Castigliano, theorem of 260, 267
casualties 169
cavitation 350
CD-rom 35
Celsius unit 347
centre of
buoyancy 18, 74
flotation 15, 62, 74
gravity 19, 124
change of density 71
changes of dimensions 94, 196
Chapman, Frederick 1
Charpy test 225
Clan Alpine 206
classification societies 4, 203
climate 338
Coastguards. US 5
coefficient of
contraction 162
fineness 12, 94
cofferdams 164
collapse design 216, 262
collision 145, 344
collision bulkhead 146
colour 361

373

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 395 ---
374 Index

comparison of plate theories 250
compartment standard 155
composite sections 190
computer-aided design 36
computers 35
constant displacement method 153
continuous spectrum 318
control surfaces 280
conversion tables xvii
corrosion allowance 192
corrosion fatigue 238
corrugated plating 246
coulomb (C)_ xvi
counterflooding 162
crack arrest 224
crack extension 224
cracks 207, 220
criterion numeral 155
criterion of

failure 238

service 155
cross curves of stability
crude oil washing 164
CTOD (crack tip opening displacement) 225
cumulative probability 212, 316
curve of

areas 11

buoyancy 118

flotation 120

statical stability 112
Cutty Sark 3

104, 107

damage control 162

damaged stability 152, 157

damping 210, 218

dangerous cargoes 159

dangerous goods rules 163

decay of spectrum 324

decibel (dB) 358

decision aids 37

deckhouses 228, 256

deflections of hull 200

deformation of structure 238

degaussing 169

de-icing 343

density 71

Department of the Environment, Transport
and the Regions 6, 155

depth of water 344

derricks 240

design trim 70

design waterplane 7,9

dew point 348

diffusion of shear 201

digital computers 35

discontinuities 192, 219, 227

dispersion of machinery 168

displacement 56, 123

displacement sheet & table 75

distribution factors 257

dock blocks 296

dock loads 295

docking 67, 158, 286, 295
docking stability 158, 299
double bottom 146, 147

drag chains 287, 293

draught changes with trim 62, 63
drift 11

dry bulb temperature 340, 347
drydocks 286, 295

duration 305

dust 342

dynamical stability 125
dynamics of launching 293

effective temperature 348
effective wave height 214
elastic stability 265
elasto-plastic theories 225, 248, 251, 262
embrittlement 165
end constraint 266
end pressures at launch 292
endurance test 353
energy methods 260
environment 172, 302
environmental pollution 172
equilibrium 91
equivalent SI units — xvii
ergonomics 361
error function 320
Euler buckling 242
exaggeration factor 243
exceptional waves 171
excitation 350
expansion joints 229
expansion of outer bottom 21
experiment, inclining 130
expert systems 37
explosives 164
extreme
air temperatures 341
climatic conditions 341
value statistics 327
waves 171, 327

Feurve 117, 118

factor of subdivision 155
Fahrenheit unit — xvii

failure 193, 207, 217, 237
farad (F) xvi

fatigue 207, 219, 225, 238, 351
fetch 305, 323

fighting capability 167

finite element analysis 226, 274
fire 159

fire protection 160

flare 11
flash 164
flexure 200

floating docks 296, 298
floodable length 155
flooding 145, 165

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 396 ---
flooding board 162
flotation 52

flotation calculations 147
fluid properties 52

flutter 200

force displacement 56

fore poppet 287

form, influence on stability 122
foundering 145

FP (fore perpendicular) 9
fracture 225, 238
frameworks 239, 256

Freak waves 171

free surface 99, 116, 146
freeboard 10, 155

freely suspended weights 101
Froude, William 1

gas attack 168

Gaul 136

Gauss’ rules 32

Gaussian distribution 212, 218, 316, 320
geometric discontinuities 220
Germanische Lloyd 4

globe temperature 347

grain, carriage of 100, 163
graving dock 297, 298
grease, launching 291

Great Lakes carriers 192
green seas 343

grillage 177, 243

grounding 67, 146, 158
groundways 286, 291

growth of spectra 323
Gumbel statistics 327

GZ curve 102, 113

hail 343

half breadth plan 8

hard corners 277

Hardy Cross 257

hazards 145

heel 11, 339

heeling trials 137

henry (H) xvi

Herald of Free Enterprise 4, 157
hertz (Hz) xvi, 349

high speed turns 129

high winds 343

histograms 315

hogging 132, 178, 203

hole, inflow of water 162
holes in plating 220

hollow box girder 193, 201, 214
horizontal flexure 200

hull weight distribution 182
human factors 302, 360
human responses 345
humidity 302, 340
hydro-elastic analysis 218
hydrogen peroxide 164

Index 375

hydroplanes 280
hydrostatic

curves 74

data 65, 74

pressure 54
hygroscopic material 163

IACS (International Association of
Classification Societies) 4

ice 127, 225, 360

ice navigation 158

icing 341, 343

illumination 349

IMO (International Maritime 6, 156, 159
Organisation)

impact 219

inclining experiment 130

incremental analysis 217

inflow through a hole 162

influence lines 182, 194

infra-red radiation 169

initial stability 93

initiation of cracks 224

instability, structural 207, 238

integrator 69, 107

interactive systems 35

internal environment 344

Internet xix, 366

irregular shapes 14

irregular waves 306, 312

ITTC spectrum 324, 327, 330

J contour integral 225
joule (J) 348

kelvin (K) xvi

kilowatt (kW) xvii
kinematic viscosity 303
knot xvii

knowledge based systems 37

L/20 wave 181, 213

Lagrange 1

large angle stability 104

large plate deflection 247, 250

large weight addition 68

launching 70, 286

launching curves 287, 289

launching forces 288, 291

latent heat 348

law of flotation 54

LCB (longitudinal centre of buoyancy) 18
LCG (longitudinal centre of gravity) 18
Leclert’s theorem 121

length 9, 123

Liberty ships 220

life of ships 192

life saving equipment 159, 160

light fittings 349

lighting 345, 348

limit design 257, 262

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 397 ---
376 Index

line spectrum 318

lines plan 8

liquid gas 164

Lloyd, Edward 4

Lloyd’s Insurance Incorporation 5
Lloyd’s Register of Shipping 5
loading and unloading risks 204
loading, longitudinal 180, 185, 237
loadline 157

loadline convention 156

load shirking 189, 215

load shortening curves 215, 246
locked up stresses 207, 214, 217, 222
log normal distribution 316

loll 115, 154

long-crested waves 312

long-term statistics 207, 212
longitudinal strength 203

losses at sea 145

lost buoyancy method 148

lumen 348

lux (Ix) xvi, 348

magnetic mines 169
magnification factor 351
maloperation of docks 298
margin line 154, 155
Marine Accident Investigation
Branch 6

marine safety 159
Maritime and Coastguard Agency 6
MARPOL 6, 172
mass density 52, 97, 303
mass displacement 56
masts 240
matrix, stiffness 274
maximum stresses 204
MCT (moment to change trim) 64
mean, arithmetic 41
mechanical shock 165
median 41
meganewton (MN) xvi
megapascal (MPa) xvi
membrane tension 247
metacentre 19, 74, 93
metacentric

curve 119

diagram 76

height 74, 94, 114
method of least squares 133
metric equivalents xvii
middle line plane 7
midship section coefficient 12
midships 9
mile, nautical xvii
minimum GM_ 155
mode 41
modes of vibration 352
modulus calculation 186, 204
moment causing trim 64
moment distribution 257, 270

Morrish’s rule 39
Moseley’s formula 127
Moskowitz 324
motion sickness 345
motions 345

mould 343

moulded dimensions 9
multiples of units — xviii

nausea 38, 345, 346
nautical mile — xvii
natural frequencies of hull 358
NBCD 168
neutral axis 180, 216
Neverita 206
Newcombia 206
newton (N)_ xvi
Newton-Cotes’ rules 24, 30
Nippon Kaiji Kyokai 4
nodes 352
noise 358
effects 302, 359
underwater 169
nomenclature xx
normal distribution 316, 322
Normand’s rule 39
Norske Veritas, det 4
North Atlantic seas 127, 315
notch toughness 219
nuclear reactors 147, 159, 164

Ocean Vulcan 206

ocean wave statistics 330
offset 9

ohm (Q) xvi

oil pollution 159

one metre trim moment 66
optimum structural design 237
orbit centres 310, 311

outer bottom expansion 21

panels of plating 215, 238, 239, 247
Pappus Guldinus, Theorem of 47
parallel sinkage 57
partial safety factors 218
pascal (P) xvi
passenger ship construction rules 157
passenger ship regulations 130, 157
passengers, crowding of 129
periodic forces 351
permeability 149, 170
permissible length 155
permissible stresses 205
petrol, carriage 163
Pierson—Moskowitz spectrum 324
planes of reference 7
plastic

design 262

hinges 214, 248, 263

modulus 213
plasticity 248

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 398 ---
plates under lateral pressure 247, 249
plating-stiffener 239
plunge 145

pollution 172
population 318
portals 256

poundage 21
preferred values xviii
prefixes xviii

pressure in a wave 137, 202, 311
pressure mines 169
Preston 206
pre-wetting 168
principal axes 151
prismatic coefficient 13
probability 40, 170
distributions 315
standards 169

of exceedance 208
Prohaska’s method 112
pro-metacentre 20, 119
properties of

fluids 52

irregular shapes 14
materials 53, 303
protection 145

radhaz 168

radioactive particles 164

rain 342

rake 11

relaxation methods 257

range (statistical) 41

range of stability 114

Rankine 2

Rankine unit xvii

Rankine—Gordon formula 242

RAO (response amplitude operator) 210

Rayleigh distribution 211, 218, 316, 321

realistic longitudinal strength 208

structural elements 276

ic structural response 213

reciprocal weight density 53

Reech’s method 110

Reed’s method 229

Registro Italiano 4

reinforcement 227

relative humidity 343, 348

reserve of buoyancy 57, 145, 157

residual GZ 112, 158

resonances 137, 350, 351

reversals of stress 207

righting moment, lever 93

rim reinforcement 221

rise of floor 10, 112

river water 71

RoRo ferries 147

round down 11

Royal George 4

Royal Institution of Naval
Architects 6

Index 377

rudder forces 280
rudder stock 280

S-N curves 226
safety
factors 217
margins 155
of life at sea (SOLAS) 6, 159
sagging 132, 178, 205
salinity 125, 304
samples 318
sand 342
sandwich protection 146
Santacilla 1
Scandinavian Star 159
Schlick formula 357
scope (anchors) 161
Scott Russell 2
sea
areas 330
state code 315
surface 304
seasickness 345
second moment of area 16, 189
section modulus 189, 196, 262
self trimming 163
sensible heat 348
sewage treatment 172
shallow water effects 344
shape factor 262
shear
diffusion 201, 228
force 185, 205
lag 201, 214, 228, 243
stresses, longitudinal 193
sheer drawing 8
sheer plan 7
shielding, reactor 147, 165
shift of cargo 163
shifting boards 163
ship form, effects on stability 122
ship girder 177
ship lifts 299
ship motions 330
shiplifts 299
shirking load 246, 277
shock 165, 167
SI units xv
sickness 346
sideways launching 286, 294
siemens (S)_ xvi
signatures 165, 168
significant wave height 172, 314, 321, 325
sills 146
simple beams 242
Simpson’s rules 24, 76
simulation modelling 37
simulators 37
sinkage 344
sinusoidal waves 210
sisal 164

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 399 ---
378 Index

slamming 207, 218, 219
slender body theory 211
sliding ways 286
slipways 286
slope deflection methods 257, 258, 269
small deflection of plates 247
Smith correction 137, 202, 311
Society of Naval Architects and
Marine Engineers 6
Society of Naval Architects of
Japan 6
solar radiation 342, 343
SOLAS (safety of life at sea) 6
SOLAS 90 157, 170
sources of noise 359
specific gravity 53
specific volume 53
spectra 212, 323
spreading function 327
springing 351
sprinkler systems 160
square holes 220
stability 91
on docking 158, 299
on launch 289, 293
standards 127
stabilizers 280
standard climate 341
standard deviation 41
standard longitudinal
strength 179
starved horse look 248
statical stability 91, 112
statistics 40, 169
statutory freeboard 156
stern lift at launch 287, 294
stiffened plating 242, 246
stiffness matrix 274
still water loading 204
strength of wind 305, 323
strength on launch 293
stress
concentrations 219
intensity factor 225
strip theory 206, 211, 276
structural
design 237
elements 239
response 213
safety 209, 217
struts 244
submerged body stability 124
subjective loudness 359
sub-surface trochoids 309
superstructure 197, 228
surface effect vehicles 56
surfaces of stability 117
susceptibility 165
suspended weights 101
swedged plating 246
swell 305, 330

symbols xx, 22
SZ 106, 153

table of offsets 9
TCB (transverse centre of buoyancy) 18
Tchebycheff’s rules 31, 76
temperature

ambient 125, 302

dry bulb 340, 347

effective 348

globe 347

wet bulb 340, 347
tilt test 137
Todd formula 357
tolerance to environment 361
tonne xviii
tonnef xviii
total heat 348
toughness of steel 224
TPC (tonnef per centimetre) 58, 74
TPI (tonnef parallel immersion) 58, 74
transition temperature 224
transverse planes 8
trapezoidal rule 23
trials 167, 206
trim 11, 61

correction 64
tripping brackets 265
trochoid 181, 202, 306
tropical climate 341
tumble home 11
tuning factor 210
turning values 322
two-dimensional system 313

ultimate longitudinal strength 214, 217
uncomfortable cargoes 163
underwater explosions 166, 274
unitized machinery 168

units xv

US Coastguards 6, 345

vanishing stability 114
variance 41

Vasa 4
VCB 18
VCG 21

vent plates 164
vertical prismatic coefficient 14
vibration 302, 344, 350
modes 352
virtual reality 36
virtual work 264
viscosity 303
volt (V) xvi
volume of displacement 12
vulnerability 165, 169

wall-sided formula 101
water

density xviii, 303
depth 344

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 400 ---
inflow 162
properties 303
temperature 341
waterplane coefficient 13
waterplanes, lines 8
watertight subdivision 145, 159
watt (W) xvi
wave characteristics 320
elevation 321
frequency 210, 311
number 311
period code 332
pressure correction 202, 308
sinusoidal 311
spectra 206, 276, 318, 323
standards 180
trochoidal 181, 202, 306
wave-induced bending moment
204
weapon attack 165
weapon blast 165
weber (Wb) xvi

Index 379

weight

density 22, 52

distribution 178, 182
weights over the side 129
welding stresses 207, 214, 222, 277
wet bulb temperature 340, 347
whipping 67, 207, 351
wide flanged beams 240
wide plate crack arrest test 225
wind 127, 323, 338
wind speed, variation with height 340
Wolf 206
work done in heeling 125
worldwide seas 337

yaw 11
yielding out 207, 223
Young’s modulus — xviii

Zcurve 121
zero crossings 322
zoning 165

---PAGE BREAK---
