--- Page 1 ---
D A Taylor

introduction to

REVISED SECOND EDITION

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 2 ---
Introduction to
Marine Engineering

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 3 ---
This page intentionally left blank

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 4 ---
Second Edition

Introduction to
Marine Engineering

D. A. Taylor, MSc, BSc, CENG, FIMarE, FRINA
Marine Consultant, Harbour Craft Services Ltd, Hong Kong
Formerly Senior Lecturer in Marine Technology, Hong Kong Polytechic University

AMSTERDAM BOSTON HEIDELBERG LONDON NEW YORK OXFORD
PARIS SAN DIEGO SAN FRANCISCO SINGAPORE SYDNEY TOKYO

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 5 ---
Elsevier Butterworth-Heinemann
Linacre House, Jordan Hill, Oxford OX2 8DP
200 Wheeler Road, Burlington, MA 01803

First published 1983

Reprinted 1985

Second edition 1990

Reprinted 1992, 1993, 1994

Revised 1996

Reprinted 1998 (twice), 1999, 2000 (twice), 2001, 2002, 2003

© 1996, Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

No part of this publication may be reproduced in any material form (including
photocopying or storing in any medium by electronic means and whether

or not transiently or incidentally to some other use of this publication) without

the written permission of the copyright holder except in accordance with the
provisions of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 or under the terms of

a licence issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency Ltd, 90 Tottenham Court Road,
London, England W1T 4LP. Applications for the copyright holder's written
permission to reproduce any part of this publication should be addressed

to the publisher.

Permissions may be sought directly from Elsevier's Science and

Technology Rights Department in Oxford, UK: phone: (+44) (0) 1865 843830;
fax: (+44) (0) 1865 853333; e-mail: permissions@elsevier.co.uk . You may also
complete your request on-line via the Elsevier homepage
(http:/Awww.elsevier.com), by selecting ‘Customer Support’ and then ‘Obtaining
Permissions’.

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
Taylor, D A. (David Albert), 1946-

Introduction to marine engineering.-2nd ed.

1. Marine engineering

I. Title

623.87

Library of Congress Cataloguing in Publication Data
Taylor, D. A.
Introduction to marine engineering/ D. A. Taylor. - 2nd ed.
p. cm.
ISBN 0 7506 2530 9
1. Marine engineering 2. Marine machinery. I. Title
'VM600.T385 1990
623.87 dc20 89 71326

ISBN 0 7506 25309

information on all Butterworth-Heinemann publications
our website at www.bh.com

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Antony Rowe Ltd, Chippenham, Wiltshire

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 6 ---
Preface to second edition

Progress has been made in many areas of marine engineering since the
first edition of this book was published. A greater emphasis is now being
placed on the cost-effective operation of ships. This has meant more
fuel-efficient engines, less time in port and the need for greater
equipment reliability, fewer engineers and more use of automatically
operated machinery.

The marine engineer is still, however, required to understand the
working principles, construction and operation of all the machinery
items in a ship. The need for correct and safe operating procedures is as
great as ever. There is considerably more legislation which must be
understood and complied with, for example in relation to the
discharging of oil, sewage and even black smoke from the funnel.
Engineers must now be more environmentally aware of the results of their
activities and new material is included in this revised edition dealing with
exhaust emissions, environmentally friendly refrigerants and fire
extinguishants.

The aim of this book is to simply explain the operation of all the ship’s
machinery to an Engineer Cadet or Junior Engineer who is embarking
on a career at sea. The emphasis is always upon correct, safe operating
procedures and practices at all times.

The content has been maintained at a level to cover the syllabuses of
the Class 4 and Class 3 Engineer’s Certificates of Competency and the
first two years of the Engineer Cadet Training Scheme. Additional
material is included to cover the Engineering knowledge syllabus of the
Master's Certificate.

Anyone with an interest in ships’ machinery or a professional
involvement in the shipping business should find this book informative
and useful.

D.A. Taylor

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 7 ---
This page intentionally left blank

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 8 ---
Acknowledgements

I would like to thank the many firms, organisations and individuals who
have provided me with assistance and material during the writing of this

book.

To my many colleagues and friends who have answered numerous
queries and added their wealth of experience, I am most grateful.

The following firms have contributed various illustrations and
information on their products, for which I thank them.

Aalborg Vaerft A/S

AFA Minerva

Alfa-Laval Ltd

Angus Fire Armour Ltd

Asea Brown Boveri Ltd

B & W Engineering

Babcock-Bristol Ltd

Babcock Power Ltd

Beaufort Air—Sea Equipment Ltd

Blohm and Voss AG

Brown Bros. & Co. Ltd

Caird & Rayner Ltd

Cammell Laird Shipbuilders

Chadburn Bloctube Ltd

Clarke Chapman Marine

Combustion Engineering Marine
Power Systems

Comet Marine Pumps Ltd

Conoflow Europa BV

Deep Sea Seals Ltd

Doncasters Moorside Ltd

Donkin & Co. Ltd

Doxford Engines Ltd

Evershed & Vignoles Ltd

Flakt Ltd (SF Review)

Foster Wheeler Power Products
Ltd

Frydenbé Mek. Verksted

GEC Turbine Generators Ltd,
Industrial & Marine Steam
Turbine Division

Glacier Metal Co. Ltd

Grandi Motori Trieste

Graviner Ltd

M. W. Grazebook Ltd

Hall-Thermotank International
Ltd

Hall-Thermotank Products Ltd

Hamworthy Combustion Systems
Ltd

Hamworthy Engineering Ltd

Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft

John Hastie of Greenock Ltd

Richard Klinger Ltd

Maag Gearwheel Co. Ltd

McGregor Centrex Ltd

H. Maihak AG

Mather & Platt (Marine Dept.) Ltd

vii

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 9 ---
viii Acknowledgements

Michell Bearings Ltd

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd

The Motor Ship

NEI-APE Ltd

New Sulzer Diesel Ltd

Nife Jungner AB, A/S

Norsk Elektrisk & Brown Boveri

Nu-Swift International Ltd

Peabody Holmes Ltd

Pyropress Engineering Co. Ltd

Scanpump AB

SEMT Pielstick

Serck Heat Transfer

Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering
International

Siebe Gorman & Co. Ltd

Spirax Sarco Ltd

Stone Manganese Marine Ltd

Taylor Instrument Ltd

Thom, Lamont & Co. Ltd

Thompson Cochran Boilers Ltd

The Trent Valve Co. Ltd

Tungsten Batteries Ltd

Vokes Ltd

Vulkan Kupplungs-U.
Getriebebau B. Hackforth
GmbH & Co. KG

Walter Kidde & Co. Ltd

Weir Pumps Ltd

The Welin Davit & Engineering
Co. Ltd

Weser AG

Wilson Elsan Marine International
Ltd

Worthington-Simpson Ltd

Young and Cunningham Ltd

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 10 ---
Contents

no wonrt oo — WO NH —

ee ee ee
a oo F WO NH &- S

17

Ships and machinery

Diesel engines

Steam turbines and gearing

Boilers

Feed systems

Pumps and pumping systems

Auxiliaries

Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation
Deck machinery and hull equipment
Shafting and propellers

Steering gear

Fire fighting and safety

Electrical equipment

Instrumentation and control

Engineering materials

Watchkeeping and equipment operation

Appendix SI units, engineering terms, power measurement,

fuel estimation and engineering drawing

Index

53

73

99
112
134
150
163
180
200
211
231
253
279
326
341

349
365

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 11 ---
This page intentionally left blank

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 12 ---
Chapter 1
Ships and machinery

As an introduction to marine engineering, we might reasonably begin by
taking an overall look at the ship. The various duties of a marine
engineer all relate to the operation of the ship in a safe, reliable, efficient
and economic manner. The main propulsion machinery installed will
influence the machinery layout and determine the equipment and
auxiliaries installed. This will further determine the operational and
maintenance requirements for the ship and thus the knowledge
required and the duties to be performed by the marine engineer.

Ships

Ships are large, complex vehicles which must be self-sustaining in their
environment for long periods with a high degree of reliability. A ship is
the product of two main areas of skill, those of the naval architect and
the marine engineer. The naval architect is concerned with the hull, its
construction, form, habitability and ability to endure its environment.
The marine engineer is responsible for the various systems which propel
and operate the ship. More specifically, this means the machinery
required for propulsion, steering, anchoring and ship securing, cargo
handling, air conditioning, power generation and its distribution. Some
overlap in responsibilities occurs between naval architects and marine
engineers in areas such as propeller design, the reduction of noise and
vibration in the ship’s structure, and engineering services provided to
considerable areas of the ship.

A ship might reasonably be divided into three distinct areas: the
cargo-carrying holds or tanks, the accommodation and the machinery
space. Depending upon the type each ship will assume varying
proportions and functions. An oil tanker, for instance, will have the
cargo-carrying region divided into tanks by two longitudinal bulkheads
and several transverse bulkheads. There will be considerable quantities
of cargo piping both above and below decks. The general cargo ship will

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 13 ---
2. Ships and machinery

have various cargo holds which are usually the full width of the vessel
and formed by transverse bulkheads along the ship’s length. Cargo-
handling equipment will be arranged on deck and there will be large
hatch openings closed with steel hatch covers. The accommodation areas
in each of these ship types will be sufficient to meet the requirements for
the ship’s crew, provide a navigating bridge area and a communications
centre. The machinery space size will be decided by the particular
machinery installed and the auxiliary equipment necessary. A passenger
ship, however, would have a large accommodation area, since this might
be considered the ‘cargo space’. Machinery space requirements will
probably be larger because of air conditioning equipment, stabilisers and
other passenger related equipment.

Machinery
Arrangement

Three principal types of machinery installation are to be found at sea
today. Their individual merits change with technological advances and
improvements and economic factors such as the change in oil prices. It is
intended therefore only to describe the layouts from an engineering
point of view. The three layouts involve the use of direct-coupled
slow-speed diesel engines, medium-speed diesels with a gearbox, and the
steam turbine with a gearbox drive to the propeller.

A propeller, in order to operate efficiently, must rotate at a relatively
low speed. Thus, regardless of the rotational speed of the prime mover,
the propeller shaft must rotate at about 80 to 100rev/min. The
slow-speed diesel engine rotates at this low speed and the crankshaft is
thus directly coupled to the propeller shafting. The medium-speed
diesel engine operates in the range 250-750rev/min and cannot
therefore be dircci!y coupled to the propeller shaft. A gearbox is used to
provide a low-speed drive for the propeller shaft. The steam turbine
rotates at a very high speed, in the order of 6000 rev/min. Again, a
gearbox must be used to provide a low-speed drive for the propeller
shaft.

Slow-speed diesel

A cutaway drawing of a complete ship is shown in Figure 1.1. Here, in
addition to the machinery space, can be seen the structure of the hull,
the cargo tank areas together with the cargo piping and the deck
machinery. The compact, complicated nature of the machinery
installation can clearly be seen, with the two major items being the main
engine and the cargo heating boiler.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 14 ---
fuel oil 4
deep tank Raised
fore-and-aft Deck ieee
senany plant

Accommodation ‘ ;
Cargo heating

boiler

Fore peak

control
room Diesel engine
alternator

Figure 1.1 Cutaway drawing of a ship

Agauryoeur pur sdiyg

€

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 15 ---
4 — Ships and machinery

Section looking to port Section looking forward

Figure 1.2 Slow-speed diesel machinery arrangement

The more usual plan and elevation drawings of a typical slow-speed
diesel installation are shown in Figure 1.2.

A six-cylinder direct-drive diesel engine is shown in this machinery
arrangement. The only auxiliaries visible are a diesel generator on the
upper flat and an air compressor below. Other auxiliaries within the
machinery space would include additional generators, an oily-water
separator, an evaporator, numerous pumps and heat exchangers. An
auxiliary boiler and an exhaust gas heat exchanger would be located in
the uptake region leading to the funnel. Various workshops and stores
and the machinery control room will also be found on the upper flats.

Geared medium-speed diesel

Four medium-speed (500 rev/min) diesels are used in the machinery
layout of the rail ferry shown in Figure 1.3. The gear units provide a
twin-screw drive at 170 rev/min to controllable-pitch propellers. The
gear units also power take-offs for shaft-driven generators which
provide all power requirements while at sea.

The various pumps and other auxiliaries are arranged at floor plate
level in this minimum-height machinery space. The exhaust gas boilers
and uptakes are located port and starboard against the side shell plating.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 16 ---
Ships and machinery 5

Waste combustion plant

Medium-speed Diesel generator units Ballast pumps
diesel engine Engine room layout

Figure 1.3 Medium-speed diesel machinery arrangement

A separate generator room houses three diesel generator units, a
waste combustion plant and other auxiliaries. The machinery control
room is at the forward end of this room.

Steam turbine

Twin cross-compounded steam turbines are used in the machinery
layout of the container ship, shown in Figure 1.4. Only part plans and
sections are given since there is a considerable degree of symmetry in the
layout. Each turbine set drives, through a double reduction gearbox with
separate thrust block, its own fixed-pitch propeller. The condensers are
located beneath each low-pressure turbine and are arranged for scoop
circulation at full power operation and axial pump circulation when
manceuvring.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 17 ---
6 — Ships and machinery

yPPER DECK

RESERVE
3 FEEO TK

RESERVE
FEED Tk

JEL AT 2 3451

To paainT
mo

SECTION AT FRAME IO! SECTION AT FRAME 101
(b) LOOKING AFT LOOKING FORWARD
Figure 1.4 Steam turbine machinery arrangement
1 Main boiler 16 Main condenser 29 Auxiliary boiler
2 FD fan 17 Main extraction pump —_30 Auxiliary boiler feed heater
3 Main feed pump 18 Bilge/ballast pump 31 HFO transfer pump module
4 Turbo-alternator 19 Drains tank extraction 32 HFO service pumps
7 SW-cooled evaporator pumps 33 Diesel oil transfer pump
10 Hot water calorifier 21 Turbo alternator pump 34 Diesel alternator
11 FW pressure tank 22 LO cooler 35 Diesel alternator controls
12 Main turbines 24 LO bypass filter and 40 Condensate de-oiler
13 Main gearbox pumps 41 Refrigerant circulation pump
14 Thrust block 26 LO pumps 42 Oily bilge pump

15 Main SW circ pump 28 Fire pump 43 Steam/air heater

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 18 ---
Ships and machinery 7

At the floorplate level around the main machinery are located various
main engine and ship’s services pumps, an auxiliary oil-fired boiler and a
sewage plant. Three diesel alternators are located aft behind an acoustic
screen.

The 8.5m flat houses a turbo-alternator each side and also the
forced-draught fans for the main boilers. The main boiler feed pumps
and other feed system equipment are also located around this flat. The
two main boilers occupy the after end of this flat and are arranged for
roof firing. Two distillation plants are located forward and the domestic
water supply units are located aft.

The control room is located forward of the 12.3 m flat and contains
the main and auxiliary machinery consoles. The main switchboard and
group starter boards are located forward of the console, which faces into
the machinery space.

On the 16.2 m flat is the combustion control equipment for each boiler
with a local display panel, although control is from the main control
room. The boiler fuel heating and pumping module is also located here.
The de-aerator is located high up in the casing and silencers for the
diesel alternators are in the funnel casing.

Operation and maintenance

The responsibilities of the marine engineer are rarely confined to the
machinery space. Different companies have different practices, but
usually all shipboard machinery, with the exception of radio equipment,
is maintained by the marine engineer. Electrical engineers may be
carried on very large ships, but if not, the electrical equipment is also
maintained by the engineer.

A broad-based theoretical and practical training is therefore necessary
for a marine engineer. He must be a mechanical, electrical, air
conditioning, ventilation and refrigeration engineer, as the need arises.
Unlike his shore-based opposite number in these occupations, he must
also deal with the specialised requirements of a floating platform in a
most corrosive environment. Furthermore he must be self sufficient and
capable of getting the job done with the facilities at his disposal.

The modern ship is a complex collection of self-sustaining machinery
providing the facilities to support a small community for a considerable
period of time. To simplify the understanding of all this equipment is
the purpose of this book. This equipment is dealt with either as a
complete system comprising small items or individual larger items. In
the latter case, especially, the choices are often considerable. A
knowledge of machinery and equipment operation provides the basis
for effective maintenance, and the two are considered in turn in the
following chapters.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 19 ---
Chapter 2
Diesel engines

The diesel engine is a type of internal combustion engine which ignites
the fuel by injecting it into hot, high-pressure air in a combustion
chamber. In common with all internal combustion engines the diesel
engine operates with a fixed sequence of events, which may be achieved
either in four strokes or two, a stroke being the travel of the piston
between its extreme points. Each stroke is accomplished in half a
revolution of the crankshaft.

Four-stroke cycle

The four-stroke cycle is completed in four strokes of the piston, or two
revolutions of the crankshaft. In order to operate this cycle the engine
requires a mechanism to open and close the inlet and exhaust valves.

Consider the piston at the top of its stroke, a position known as top
dead centre (TDC). The inlet valve opens and fresh air is drawn in as the
piston moves down (Figure 2.1(a)). At the bottom of the stroke, i.e.
bottom dead centre (BDC), the inlet valve closes and the air in the
cylinder is compressed (and consequently raised in temperature) as the
piston rises (Figure 2.1(b)). Fuel is injected as the piston reaches top
dead centre and combustion takes place, producing very high pressure
in the gases (Figure 2.1(c)). The piston is now forced down by these gases
and at bottom dead centre the exhaust valve opens. The final stroke is
the exhausting of the burnt gases as the piston rises to top dead centre to
complete the cycle (Figure 2.1(d)). The four distinct strokes are known
as ‘inlet’ (or suction), ‘compression’, ‘power’ (or working stroke) and
‘exhaust’.

These events are shown diagrammatically on a timing diagram
(Figure 2.2). The angle of the crank at which each operation takes place
is shown as well as the period of the operation in degrees. This diagram
is more correctly representative of the actual cycle than the simplified
explanation given in describing the four-stroke cycle. For different
engine designs the different angles will vary, but the diagram is typical.

8

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 20 ---
Inlet Exhaust

alve

‘Connecting rod

.

(c}

Diesel engines 9

Fuel injector

(d)

Figure 2.1 The four-stroke cycle. (a) suction stroke and (b) compression stroke. (c) power

stroke and (d) exhaust stroke

Two-stroke cycle

The two-stroke cycle is completed in two strokes of the piston or one
revolution of the crankshaft. In order to operate this cycle where each
event is accomplished in a very short time, the engine requires a number
of special arrangements. First, the fresh air must be forced in under
pressure. The incoming air is used to clean out or scavenge the exhaust

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 21 ---
10 Diesel engines

Rotation

Na,

Exhaust
valve
Opens

Figure 2.2 Four-stroke timing diagram

gases and then to fill or charge the space with fresh air. Instead of val:"ss
holes, known as ‘ports’, are used which are opened and closed by the
sides of the piston as it moves.

Consider the piston at the top of its stroke where fuel injection and
combustion have just taken place (Figure 2.3(a)). The piston is forced
down on its working stroke until it uncovers the exhaust port (Figure
2.3(b)). The burnt gases then begin to exhaust and the piston continues
down until it opens the inlet or scavenge port (Figure 2.3(c)). Pressurised
air then enters and drives out the remaining exhaust gas. The piston, on
its return stroke, closes the inlet and exhaust ports. The air is then
compressed as the piston moves to the top of its stroke to complete the
cycle (Figure 2.3(d)). A timing diagram for a two-stroke engine is shown
in Figure 2.4.

The opposed piston cycle of operations is a special case of the
two-stroke cycle. Beginning at the moment of fuel injection, both pistons

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 22 ---
Diesel engines 11

Piston

‘Connecting rod!

‘Crank

7

Injection
(a)

Se

Scavenge Compression
{c} {d)

Figure 2.3 T'wo-stroke cycle

are forced apart—one up, one down—by the expanding gases (Figure
2.5(a)). The upper piston opens the exhaust ports as it reaches the end
of its travel (Figure 2.5(b)). The lower piston, a moment or two later,
opens the scavenge ports to charge the cylinder with fresh air and
remove the final traces of exhaust gas (Figure 2.5(c)). Once the pistons
reach their extreme points they both begin to move inward. This closes
off the scavenge and exhaust ports for the compression stroke to take
place prior to fuel injection and combustion (Figure 2.5(d)). This cycle is
used in the Doxford engine, which is no longer manufactured although
many are still in operation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 23 ---
12 Diesel engines

Fuel Fuel
injection injection
begins ends

Figure 2.4 Two-stroke timing diagram

i 4 |
ui

Exhaust Scavenging Compression
(b) (e) (a)

Figure 2.5 Opposed piston engine cycle


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 24 ---
Diesel engines 13

The four-stroke engine

A cross-section of a four-stroke cycle engine is shown in Figure 2.6. The
engine is made up of a piston which moves up and down in a cylinder
which is covered at the top by a cylinder head. The fuel injector, through
which fuel enters the cylinder, is located in the cylinder head. The inlet
and exhaust valves are also housed in the cylinder head and held shut by
springs. The piston is joined to the connecting rod by a gudgeon pin.
The bottom end or big end of the connecting rod is joined to the
crankpin which forms part of the crankshaft. With this assembly the

_ we

wan

Figure 2.6 Cross-section of a four-stroke diesel engine

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 25 ---
14 Diesel engines

linear up-and-down movement of the piston is converted into rotary
movement of the crankshaft. The crankshaft is arranged to drive
through gears the camshaft, which either directly or through pushrods
operates rocker arms which open the inlet and exhaust valves. The
camshaft is ‘timed’ to open the valves at the correct point in the cycle. The
crankshaft is surrounded by the crankcase and the engine framework
which supports the cylinders and houses the crankshaft bearings. The
cylinder and cylinder head are arranged with water-cooling passages
around them.

The two-stroke engine

A cross-section of a two-stroke cycle engine is shown in Figure 2.7. The
piston is solidly connected to a piston rod which is attached to a
crosshead bearing at the other end. The top end of the connecting rod is

Crosshead Connecting rod

Bottom end 4 A-frame
bearing ir

Bedplate
Crankshaft

Figure 2.7 Cross-section of a two-stroke diesel engine

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 26 ---
Diesel engines 15

also joined to the crosshead bearing. Ports are arranged in the cylinder
liner for air inlet and a valve in the cylinder head enables the release of
exhaust gases. The incoming air is pressurised by a turbo-blower which
is driven by the outgoing exhaust gases. The crankshaft is supported
within the engine bedplate by the main bearings. A-frames are mounted
on the bedplate and house guides in which the crosshead travels up and
down. The entablature is mounted above the frames and is made up of
the cylinders, cylinder heads and the scavenge trunking.

Comparison of two-stroke and four-stroke cycles

The main difference between the two cycles is the power developed. The
two-stroke cycle engine, with one working or power stroke every
revolution, will, theoretically, develop twice the power of a four-stroke
engine of the same swept volume. Inefficient scavenging however and
other losses, reduce the power advantage to about 1.8. For a particular
engine power the two-stroke engine will be considerably lighter—an
important consideration for ships. Nor does the two-stroke engine
require the complicated valve operating mechanism of the four-stroke.
The four-stroke engine however can operate efficiently at high speeds
which offsets its power disadvantage; it also consumes less lubricating
oil.

Each type of engine has its applications which on board ship have
resulted in the slow speed (i.e. 80—100 rev/min) main propulsion diesel
operating on the two-stroke cycle. At this low speed the engine requires
no reduction gearbox between it and the propeller. The four-stroke
engine (usually rotating at medium speed, between 250 and 750 rev/
min) is used for auxiliaries such as alternators and sometimes for main
propulsion with a gearbox to provide a propeller speed of between 80
and 100 rev/min.

Power measurement

There are two possible measurements of engine power: the indicated
power and the shaft power. The indicated power is the power developed
within the engine cylinder and can be measured by an engine indicator.
The shaft power is the power available at the output shaft of the engine
and can be measured using a torsionmeter or with a brake.

The engine indicator

An engine indicator is shown in Figure 2.8. It is made up of a small
piston of known size which operates in a cylinder against a specially

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 27 ---
16 Diesel engines

Figure 2.8 Engine indicator

calibrated spring. A magnifying linkage transfers the piston movement
to a drum on which is mounted a piece of paper or card. The drum
oscillates (moves backwards and forwards) under the pull of the cord.
The cord is moved by a reciprocating (up and down) mechanism which
is proportional to the engine piston movement in the cylinder. The
stylus draws out an indicator diagram which represents the gas pressure
on the engine piston at different points of the stroke, and the area of the
indicator diagram produced represents the power developed in. the
particular cylinder. The cylinder power can be measured if the scaling
factors, spring calibration and some basic engine details are known. The
procedure is described in the Appendix. The cylinder power values are
compared, and for balanced loading should all be the same.
Adjustments may then be made to the fuel supply in order to balance the
cylinder loads.

Torsionmeter

If the torque transmitted by a shaft is known, together with the angular
velocity, then the power can be measured, i.e.

shaft power = torque X angular velocity

The torque on a shaft can be found by measuring the shear stress or
angle of twist with a torsionmeter. A number of different types of
torsionmeter are described in Chapter 15.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 28 ---
Diesel engines 17
The gas exchange process

A basic part of the cycle of an internal combustion engine is the supply
of fresh air and removal of exhaust gases. This is the gas exchange
process. Scavenging is the removal of exhaust gases by blowing in fresh
air. Charging is the filling of the engine cylinder with a supply or charge
of fresh air ready for compression. With supercharging a large mass of air
is supplied to the cylinder by blowing it in under pressure. Older engines
were ‘naturally aspirated’—taking fresh air only at atmospheric
pressure. Modern engines make use of exhaust gas driven turbo-
chargers to supply pressurised fresh air for scavenging and supercharg-
ing. Both four-stroke and two-stroke cycle engines may be pressure
charged.

On two-stroke diesels an electrically driven auxiliary blower is usually
provided because the exhaust gas driven turboblower cannot provide
enough air at low engine speeds, and the pressurised air is usually cooled
to increase the charge air density. An exhaust gas driven turbocharging
arrangement for a slow-speed two-stroke cycle diesel is shown in Figure
2.9(a).

A turboblower or turbocharger is an air compressor driven by exhaust
gas (Figure 2.9(b)). The single shaft has an exhaust gas turbine on one
end and the air compressor on the other. Suitable casing design and
shaft seals ensure that the two gases do not mix. Air is drawn from the
machinery space through a filter and then compressed before passing to
the scavenge space. The exhaust gas may enter the turbine directly from
the engine or from a constant-pressure chamber. Each of the shaft
bearings has its own independent lubrication system, and the exhaust
gas end of the casing is usually water-cooled.

Scavenging

Efficient scavenging is essential to ensure a sufficient supply of fresh air
for combustion. In the four-stroke cycle engine there is an adequate
overlap between the air inlet valve opening and the exhaust valve
closing. With two-stroke cycle engines this overlap is limited and some
slight mixing of exhaust gases and incoming air does occur.

A number of different scavenging methods are in use in slow-speed
two-stroke engines. In each the fresh air enters as the inlet port is
opened by the downward movement of the piston and continues until
the port is closed by the upward moving piston. The flow path of the
scavenge air is decided by the engine port shape and design and the
exhaust arrangements. Three basic systems are in use: the cross flow, the
loop and the uniflow. All modern slow-speed diese] engines now use the
uniflow scavenging system with a cylinder-head exhaust valve.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 29 ---
18 Diesel engines

Air
intake Exhaust gas
outlet

4
a

W/({
HEB...

Figure 2.9 (a) Exhaust gas turbocharging arrangement. (b) A turbocharger

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 30 ---
Diesel engines 19

In cross scavenging the incoming air is directed upwards, pushing the
exhaust gases before it. The exhaust gases then travel down and out of
the exhaust ports. Figure 2.10(a) illustrates the process.

In loop scavenging the incoming air passes over the piston crown then
rises towards the cylinder head. The exhaust gases are forced before the
air passing down and out of exhaust ports located just above the inlet
ports. The process is shown in Figure 2.10(b).

With uniflow scavenging the incoming air enters at the lower end of
the cylinder and leaves at the top. The outlet at the top of the cylinder
may be ports or a large valve. The process is shown in Figure 2.10(c).

Each of the systems has various advantages and disadvantages. Cross
scavenging requires the fitting of a piston skirt to prevent air or exhaust
gas escape when the piston is at the top of the stroke. Loop scavenge

Opposed piston Exhaust valve
tc)

Figure 2.10 Scavenging methods. (a) Cross-flow scavenging, (b) loop scavenging,
(c) uniflow scavenging

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 31 ---
20 Diesel engines

arrangements have low temperature air and high temperature exhaust
gas passing through adjacent ports, causing temperature differential
problems for the liner material. Uniflow is the most efficient scavenging
system but requires either an opposed piston arrangement or an exhaust
valve in the cylinder head. All three systems have the ports angled to
swirl the incoming air and direct it in the appropriate path.

Scavenge fires

Cylinder oil can collect in the scavenge space of an engine. Unburned
fuel and carbon may also be blown into the scavenge space as a result of
defective piston rings, faulty timing, a defective injector, etc. A build-up
of this flammable mixture presents a danger as a blow past of hot gases
from the cylinder may ignite the mixture, and cause a scavenge fire.

A loss of engine power will result, with high exhaust temperatures at
the affected cylinders. The affected turbo-chargers may surge and sparks
will be seen at the scavenge drains. Once a fire is detected the engine
should be slowed down, fuel shut off from the affected cylinders and
cylinder lubrication increased. All the scavenge drains should be closed.
A small fire will quickly burn out, but where the fire persists the engine
must be stopped. A fire extinguishing medium should then be injected
through the fittings provided in the scavenge trunking. On no account
should the trunking be opened up.

To avoid scavenge fires occurring the engine timing and equipment
maintenance should be correctly carried out. The scavenge trunking
should be regularly inspected and cleaned if necessary. Where carbon or
oil build up is found in the scavenge, its source should be detected and
the fault remedied. Scavenge drains should be regularly blown and any
oil discharges investigated at the first opportunity.

Fuel oil system

The fuel oil system for a diesel engine can be considered in two
parts—the fuel supply and the fuel injection systems. Fuel supply deals with
the provision of fuel oil suitable for use by the injection system.

Fuel oil supply for a two-stroke diesel

A slow-speed two-stroke diesel is usually arranged to operate con-
tinuously on heavy fuel and have available a diesel oil supply for
manceuvring conditions.

In the system shown in Figure 2.11, the oil is stored in tanks in the
double bottom from which it is pumped to a settling tank and heated.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 32 ---
Centrifuge

Centrifuge
pump

bottom

Figure 2.11 Fuel oil supply system

bypass

-~->dq
Pre-warming

saui8ua jasaiq

1S

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 33 ---
22. Diesel engines

After passing through centrifuges the cleaned, heated oil is pumped to a
daily service tank. From the daily service tank the oil flows through a
three-way valve to a mixing tank. A flow meter is fitted into the system to
indicate fuel consumption. Booster pumps are used to pump the oil
through heaters and a viscosity regulator to the engine-driven fuel
pumps. The fuel pumps will discharge high-pressure fuel to their
respective injectors.

The viscosity regulator controls the fuel oil temperature in order to
provide the correct viscosity for combustion. A pressure regulating valve
ensures a constant-pressure supply to the engine-driven pumps, and a
pre-warming bypass is used to heat up the fuel before starting the
engine. A diesel oil daily service tank may be installed and is connected
to the system via a three-way valve. The engine can be started up and
manceuvred on diesel oil or even a blend of diesel and heavy fuel oil.
The mixing tank is used to collect recirculated oil and also acts as a
buffer or reserve tank as it will supply fuel when the daily service tank is
empty.

The system includes various safety devices such as low-level alarms
and remotely operated tank outlet valves which can be closed in the
event of a fire.

Fuel injection

The function of the fuel injection system is to provide the right amount
of fuel at the right moment and in a suitable condition for the
combustion process. There must therefore be some form of measured
fuel supply, a means of timing the delivery and the atomisation of the
fuel. The injection of the fuel is achieved by the location of cams on a
camshaft. This camshaft rotates at engine speed for a two-stroke engine
and at half engine speed for a four-stroke. There are two basic systems
in use, each of which employs a combination of mechanical and
hydraulic operations. The most common system is the jerk pump: the
other is the common rail.

Jerk pump system

In the jerk pump system of fuel injection a separate injector pump exists
for each cylinder. The injector pump is usually operated once every
cycle by a cam on the camshaft. The barrel and plunger of the injector
pump are dimensioned to suit the engine fuel requirements. Ports in the
barrel and slots in the plunger or adjustable spill valves serve to regulate
the fuel delivery (a more detailed explanation follows). Each injector
pump supplies the injector or injectors for one cylinder. The needle

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 34 ---
Diesel engines 23

valve in the injector will lift at a pre-set pressure which ensures that the
fuel will atomise once it enters the cylinder.

There are two particular types of fuel pump in use, the valve-
controlled discharge type and the helix or helical edge pump.
Valve-controlled pumps are used on slow-speed two-stroke engines and
the helix type for all medium- and high-speed four-stroke engines.

Helix-type injector pump

The injector pump is operated by a cam which drives the plunger up
and down. The timing of the injection can be altered by raising or
lowering the pump plunger in relation to the cam. The pump has a
constant stroke and the amount of fuel delivered is regulated by rotating
the pump plunger which has a specially arranged helical groove cut into
it.

The fuel is supplied to the pump through ports or openings at B
(Figure 2.12). As the plunger moves down, fuel enters the cylinder. As
the plunger moves up, the ports at B are closed and the fuel is
pressurised and delivered to the injector nozzle at very high pressure.
When the edge of the helix at C uncovers the spill port D pressure is lost
and fuel delivery to the injector stops. A non-return valve on the
delivery side of the pump closes to stop fuel oil returning from the
injector. Fuel will again be drawn in on the plunger downstroke and the
process will be repeated.

The plunger may be rotated in the cylinder by a rack and pinion
arrangement on a sleeve which is keyed to the plunger. This will move
the edge C up or down to reduce or increase the amount of fuel pumped
into the cylinder. The rack is connected to the throttle control or
governor of the engine.

This type of pump, with minor variations, is used on many four-stroke
diesel engines.

Valve-controlled pump

In the variable injection timing (VIT) pump used in MAN B&W engines
the governor output shaft is the controlling parameter. Two linkages are
actuated by the regulating shaft of the governor.

The upper control linkage changes the injection timing by raising or
lowering the plunger in relation to the cam. The lower linkage rotates
the pump plunger and thus the helix in order to vary the pump output
(Figure 2.13).

In the Sulzer variable injection timing system the governor output is
connected to a suction valve and a spill valve. The closing of the pump
suction valve determines the beginning of injection. Operation of the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 35 ---
Diesel engines

24

Cam follower

(SNOB AAAS sd

y Vy,

Figure 2.12 Injector pump with detail view showing ports and plunger

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 36 ---
Diesel engines

“ify

fy

BDMD]KYyg “sss

MMS

SS

LG
OT

HE
SKK

SS

i

SS

LA. ¥
|

ool

S
bd

SSS

Adjustment for
each fuel pump

G NS

S

Fuel quality
adjustment

Figure 2.13 Variable injection timing (VIT) pump

25

spill valve will control the end of injection by releasing fuel pressure. No

helix is therefore present on the pump plunger.

Common rail system

The common rail system has one high-pressure multiple plunger fuel
pump (Figure 2.14). The fuel is discharged into a manifold or rail which
is maintained at high pressure. From this common rail fuel is supplied to
all the injectors in the various cylinders. Between the rail and the injector
or injectors for a particular cylinder is a timing valve which determines
the timing and extent of fuel delivery. Spill valves are connected to the
manifold or rail to release excess pressure and accumulator bottles
which dampen out pump pressure pulses. The injectors in a common

rail system are often referred to as fuel valves.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 37 ---
26 Diesel engines

Suction manifold

Figure 2.14 Common rail fuel injection system

Timing valve

The timing valve in the common rail system is operated by a cam and
lever (Figure 2.15). When the timing valve is lifted by the cam and lever
the high-pressure fuel flows to the injector. The timing valve operating
lever is fixed to a sliding rod which is positioned according to the
manceuvring lever setting to provide the correct fuel quantity to the
cylinder.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 38 ---
Diesel engines 27

Fuel
| entry

Timing

Non

return

valve
To fuel
valve

Sliding
rod

Figure 2.15 Timing valve

The fuel injector

A typical fuel injector is shown in Figure 2.16. It can be seen to be two
basic parts, the nozzle and the nozzle holder or body. The high-pressure
fuel enters and travels down a passage in the body and then into a
passage in the nozzle, ending finally in a chamber surrounding the
needle valve. The needle valve is held closed on a mitred seat by an
intermediate spindle and a spring in the injector body. The spring

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 39 ---
28 Diesel engines

Fuel injection Fuel circulation

Figure 2.16 Fuel injector

pressure, and hence the injector opening pressure, can be set by a
compression nut which acts on the spring. The nozzle and injector body
are manufactured as a matching pair and are accurately ground to give a
good oil seal. The two are joined by a nozzle nut.

The needle valve will open when the fuel pressure acting on the
needle valve tapered face exerts a sufficient force to overcome the
spring compression. The fuel then flows into a lower chamber and is
forced out through a series of tiny holes. The small holes are sized and
arranged to atomise, or break into tiny drops, all of the fuel oil, which will
then readily burn. Once the injector pump or timing valve cuts off the
high pressure fuel supply the needle valve will shut quickly under the
spring compression force.

All slow-speed two-stroke engines and many medium-speed four-
stroke engines are now operated almost continuously on heavy fuel. A
fuel circulating system is therefore necessary and this is usually arranged
within the fuel injector. During injection the high-pressure fuel will
open the circulation valve for injection to take place. When the engine is
stopped the fuel booster pump supplies fuel which the circulation valve
directs around the injector body.

Older engine designs may have fuel injectors which are circulated with
cooling water.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 40 ---
Diesel engines 29
Lubrication

The lubrication system of an engine provides a supply of lubricating oil
to the various moving parts in the engine. Its main function is to enable
the formation of a film of oil between the moving parts, which reduces
friction and wear. The lubricating oil is also used as a cleaner and in
some engines as a coolant.

Lubricating oil system

Lubricating oil for an engine is stored in the bottom of the crankcase,
known as the sump, or in a drain tank located beneath the engine
(Figure 2.17). The oil is drawn from this tank through a strainer, one of
a pair of pumps, into one of a pair of fine filters. It is then passed
through a cooler before entering the engine and being distributed to the
various branch pipes. The branch pipe for a particular cylinder may
feed the main bearing, for instance. Some of this oil will pass along a
drilled passage in the crankshaft to the bottom end bearing and then up
a drilled passage in the connecting rod to the gudgeon pin or crosshead
bearing. An alarm at the end of the distribution pipe ensures that
adequate pressure is maintained by the pump. Pumps and fine filters are

Cylinder
lubricating
oil service tank

Cylinder
LJ jubrication
box

Distribution
manifold

Sea water
out

Strainer

Figure 2.17 Lubricating oil system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 41 ---
30 Diesel engines

arranged in duplicate with one as standby. The fine filters will be
arranged so that one can be cleaned while the other is operating. After
use in the engine the lubricating oil drains back to the sump or drain
tank for re-use. A level gauge gives a local read-out of the drain tank
contents. A centrifuge is arranged for cleaning the lubricating oil in the
system and clean oil can be provided from a storage tank.

The oil cooler is circulated by sea water, which is at a lower pressure
than the oil. As a result any leak in the cooler will mean a loss of oil and
not contamination of the oil by sea water.

Where the engine has oil-cooled pistons they will be supplied from the
lubricating oil system, possibly at a higher pressure produced by booster
pumps, e.g. Sulzer RTA engine. An appropriate type of lubricating oil
must be used for oil-lubricated pistons in order to avoid carbon deposits
on the hotter parts of the system.

Cylinder lubrication

Large slow-speed diesel engines are provided with a separate lubrication
system for the cylinder liners. Oil is injected between the liner and the
piston by mechanical lubricators which supply their individual cylinder.
A special type of oil is used which is not recovered. As well as lubricating,
it assists in forming a gas seal and contains additives which clean the
cylinder liner.

Cooling

Cooling of engines is achieved by circulating a cooling liquid around
internal passages within the engine. The cooling liquid is thus heated up
and is in turn cooled by a sea water circulated cooler. Without adequate
cooling certain parts of the engine which are exposed to very high
temperatures, as a result of burning fuel, would soon fail. Cooling
enables the engine metals to retain their mechanical properties. The
usual coolant used is fresh water: sea water is not used directly as a
coolant because of its corrosive action. Lubricating oil is sometimes used
for piston cooling since leaks into the crankcase would not cause
problems. As a result of its lower specific heat however about twice the
quantity of oil compared to water would be required.

Fresh water cooling system

A water cooling system for a slow-speed diesel engine is shown in Figure
2.18. It is divided into two separate systems: one for cooling the cylinder
jackets, cylinder heads and turbo-blowers; the other for piston cooling.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 42 ---
Diesel engines 31

Figure 2.18 Fresh water cooling system

The cylinder jacket cooling water after leaving the engine passes to a
sea-water-circulated cooler and then into the jacket-water circulating
pumps. It is then pumped around the cylinder jackets, cylinder heads
and turbo-blowers. A header tank allows for expansion and water
make-up in the system. Vents are led from the engine to the header tank
for the release of air from the cooling water. A heater in the circuit
facilitates warming of the engine prior to starting by circulating hot
water.

The piston cooling system employs similar components, except that a
drain tank is used instead of a header tank and the vents are then led to
high points in the machinery space. A separate piston cooling system is
used to limit any contamination from piston cooling glands to the piston
cooling system only.

Sea water cooling system

The various cooling liquids which circulate the engine are themselves
cooled by sea water. The usual arrangement uses individual coolers for
lubricating oil, jacket water, and the piston cooling system, each cooler
being circulated by sea water. Some modern ships use what is known as a
‘central cooling system’ with only one large sea-water-circulated cooler.
This cools a supply of fresh water, which then circulates to the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 43 ---
32 Diesel engines

other individual coolers. With less equipment in contact with sea water
the corrosion problems are much reduced in this system.

A sea water cooling system is shown in Figure 2.19. From the sea
suction one of a pair of sea-water circulating pumps provides sea water
which circulates the lubricating oil cooler, the jacket water cooler and the
piston water cooler before discharging overboard. Another branch of
the sea water main provides sea water to directly cool the charge air (for
a direct-drive two-stroke diesel).

One arrangement of a central cooling system is shown in Figure 2.20.
The sea water circuit is made up of high and low suctions, usually on
either side of the machinery space, suction strainers and several sea
water pumps. The sea water is circulated through the central coolers and
then discharged overboard. A low-temperature and high-temperature
circuit exist in the fresh water system. The fresh water in the
high-temperature circuit circulates the main engine and may, if
required, be used as a heating medium for an evaporator. The
low-temperature circuit circulates the main engine air coolers, the
lubricating oil coolers and all other heat exchangers. A regulating valve
controls the mixing of water between the high-temperature and
low-temperature circuits. A temperature sensor provides a signal to the

Turboblower

Charge
air cooler

Lubricating
oil cooler

Figure 2.19 Sea water cooling system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 44 ---
Diesel engines 33

linder

Central coo!
i

pumps

Oo =

35) Cc Freshwater L.

| distiller |
| _ 4

Auxiliaries

Lube oil cooler -|| | |
main engine

Freshwater

pumps /
Air coolers -
\ main engine

Freshwater — low temperature
Seawater
Freshwater — high temperature

Figure 2.20 Central cooling system

control unit which operates the regulating valve to maintain the desired
temperature setting. A temperature sensor is also used in a similar
control circuit to operate the regulating valve which controls the
bypassing of the central coolers.

It is also possible, with appropriate control equipment, to vary the
quantity of sea water circulated by the pumps to almost precisely meet
the cooler requirements.

Starting air system

Diesel engines are started by supplying compressed air into the cylinders
in the appropriate sequence for the required direction. A supply of
compressed air is stored in air reservoirs or ‘bottles’ ready for immediate
use. Up to 12 starts are possible with the stored quantity of compressed
air. The starting air system usually has interlocks to prevent starting if
everything is not in order.

A starting air system is shown in Figure 2.21. Compressed air is
supplied by air compressors to the air receivers. The compressed air is
then supplied by a large bore pipe to a remote operating non-return or
automatic valve and then to the cylinder air start valve. Opening of the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 45 ---
34 Diesel engines

REMOTE AIR STARTING VALVE

STARTING AIR —
SUPPLY FLAME TRAP
eg ee | a
PILOT AIR ——- \\ fy
FILTER -
AIR STARTING 4 5
VALVE \
TURNING GEAR
INTERLOCK VALVES
ry
VENT ‘
AHEAD 0 STARTING AIR
SHUT-OFF COCKS DISTRIBUTOR
‘ASTERN v

STARTING AIR
LEVER

G PILOT AIR
U CONTROL ¥V
EMERGENCY CONTROL CONSOLE CONTROL
Box BOX

Figure 2.21 Starting air system

cylinder air start valve will admit compressed air into the cylinder. The
opening of the cylinder valve and the remote operating valve is
controlled by a pilot air system. The pilot air is drawn from the large
pipe and passes to a pilot air control valve which is operated by the
engine air start lever.

When the air start lever is operated, a supply of pilot air enables the
remote valve to open. Pilot air for the appropriate direction of operation

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 46 ---
Diesel engines = 35

is also supplied to an air distributor. This device is usually driven by the
engine camshaft and supplies pilot air to the control cylinders of the
cylinder air start valves. The pilot air is then supplied in the appropriate
sequence for the direction of operation required. The cylinder air start
valves are held closed by springs when not in use and opened by the pilot
air enabling the compressed air direct from the receivers to enter the
engine cylinder. An interlock is shown in the remote operating valve line
which stops the valve opening when the engine turning gear is engaged.
The remote operating valve prevents the return of air which has been
further compressed by the engine into the system.

Lubricating oil from the compressor will under normal operation pass
along the air lines and deposit on them. In the event of a cylinder air
starting valve leaking, hot gases would pass into the air pipes and ignite
the lubricating oil. If starting air is supplied to the engine this would
further feed the fire and could lead to an explosion in the pipelines. In
order to prevent such an occurrence, cylinder starting valves should be
properly maintained and the pipelines regularly drained. Also oil
discharged from compressors should be kept to a minimum, by careful
maintenance.

In an attempt to reduce the effects of an explosion, flame traps, relief
valves and bursting caps or discs are fitted to the pipelines. In addition
an isolating non-return valve (the automatic valve) is fitted to the system.
The loss of cooling water from an air compressor could lead to an
overheated air discharge and possibly an explosion in the pipelines
leading to the air reservoir. A high-temperature alarm or a fusible plug
which will melt is used to guard against this possibility.

Control and safety devices
Governors

The principal control device on any engine is the governor. It governs
or controls the engine speed at some fixed value while power output
changes to meet demand. This is achieved by the governor automatically
adjusting the engine fuel pump settings to meet the desired load at the
set speed. Governors for diesel engines are usually made up of two
systems: a speed sensing arrangement and a hydraulic unit which
operates on the fuel pumps to change the engine power output.

Mechanical governor

A flyweight assembly is used to detect engine speed. Two flyweights are
fitted to a plate or ballhead which rotates about a vertical axis driven by a
gear wheel (Figure 2.22). The action of centrifugal force throws the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 47 ---
36 Diesel engines

Speed
adjustment

Spring

IT] Gear wheel
drive

control

Oil Power
supply__S \) piston
Oil
drain:

Figure 2.22 Mechanical governor

weights outwards; this lifts the vertical spindle and compresses the
spring until an equilibrium situation is reached. The equilibrium
position or set speed may be changed by the speed selector which alters
the spring compression.

As the engine speed increases the weights move outwards and raise
the spindle; a speed decrease will lower the spindle.

The hydraulic unit is connected to this vertical spindle and acts as a
power source to move the engine fuel controls. A piston valve connected
to the vertical spindle supplies or drains oil from the power piston which
moves the fuel controls depending upon the flyweight movement. If the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 48 ---
Diesel engines 37

engine speed increases the vertical spindle rises, the piston valve rises
and oil is drained from the power piston which results in a fuel control
movement. This reduces fuel supply to the engine and slows it down. It
is, in effect, a proportional controller (see Chapter 15).

The actual arrangement of mechanical engine governors will vary
considerably but most will operate as described above.

Electric governor

The electric governor uses a combination of electrical and mechanical
components in its operation. The speed sensing device is a small
magnetic pick-up coil. The rectified, or d.c., voltage signal is used in’
conjunction with a desired or set speed signal to operate a hydraulic
unit. This unit will then move the fuel controls in the appropriate
direction to control the engine speed.

Cylinder relief valve

The cylinder relief valve is designed to relieve pressures in excess of 10%
to 20% above normal. A spring holds the valve closed and its lifting
pressure is set by an appropriate thickness of packing piece (Figure
2.23). Only a small amount of lift is permitted and the escaping gases are
directed to a safe outlet. The valve and spindle are separate to enable the
valve to correctly seat itself after opening.

The operation of this device indicates a fault in the engine which
should be discovered and corrected. The valve itself should then be
examined at the earliest opportunity.

Crankcase oil mist detector

The presence of an oil mist in the crankcase is the result of oil
vaporisation caused by a hot spot. Explosive conditions can result if a
build up of oil mist is allowed. The oil mist detector uses photoelectric
cells to measure small increases in oil mist density. A motor driven fan
continuously draws samples of crankcase oil mist through a measuring
tube. An increased meter reading and alarm will result if any crankcase
sample contains excessive mist when compared to either clean air or the
other crankcase compartments. The rotary valve which draws the
sample then stops to indicate the suspect crankcase. The comparator
model tests one crankcase mist sample against all the others and once a
cycle against clean air. The level model tests each crankcase in turn
against a reference tube sealed with clean air. The comparator model is
used for crosshead type engines and the level model for trunk piston
engines.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 49 ---
38 Diesel engines

Packing piece
nap .

Figure 2.23 Cylinder relief valve

Explosion relief valve

As a practical safeguard against explosions which occur in a crankcase,
explosion relief valves or doors are fitted. These valves serve to relieve
excessive crankcase pressures and stop flames being emitted from the
crankcase. They must also be self closing to stop the return of
atmospheric air to the crankcase.

Various designs and arrangements of these valves exist where, on
large slow-speed diesels, two door type valves may be fitted to each
crankcase or, on a medium-speed diesel, one valve may be used. One
design of explosion relief valve is shown in Figure 2.24. A light spring

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 50 ---
Diesel engines 39

Valve guide 4 Gauze assembly
Valve ‘O'ring

Figure 2.24 Crankcase explosion relief valve

holds the valve closed against its seat and a seal ring completes the joint.
A deflector is fitted on the outside of the engine to safeguard personnel
from the outflowing gases, and inside the engine, over the valve
opening, an oil wetted gauze acts as a flame trap to stop any flames
leaving the crankcase. After operation the valve will close automatically
under the action of the spring.

Turning gear

The turning gear or turning engine is a reversible electric motor which
drives a worm gear which can be connected with the toothed flywheel to
turn a large diesel. A slow-speed drive is thus provided to enable
positioning of the engine parts for overhaul purposes. The turning gear
is also used to turn the engine one or two revolutions prior to starting.
This is a safety check to ensure that the engine is free to turn and that no
water has collected in the cylinders. The indicator cocks must always be
open when the turning gear is operated.

Medium- and slow-speed diesels

Medium-speed diesels, e.g. 250 to 750 rev/min, and slow-speed diesels,
e.g. 100 to 120rev/min, each have their various advantages and
disadvantages for various duties on board ship.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 51 ---
40 Diesel engines

The slow-speed two-stroke cycle diesel is used for main propulsion
units since it can be directly coupled to the propeller and shafting. It
provides high powers, can burn low-grade fuels and has a high thermal
efficiency. The cylinders and crankcase are isolated, which reduces
contamination and permits the use of specialised lubricating oils in each
area. ‘he use of the two-stroke cycle usually means there are no inlet
and exhaust valves. This reduces maintenance and simplifies engine
construction.

Medium-speed four-stroke engines provide a better power-to-weight
ratio and power-to-size ratio and there is also a lower initial cost for
equivalent power. The higher speed, however, requires the use of a
gearbox and flexible couplings for main propulsion use. Cylinder sizes
are smaller, requiring more units and therefore more maintenance, but
the increased speed partly offsets this. Cylinder liners are of simple
construction since there are no ports, but cylinder heads are more
complicated and valve operating gear is required. Scavenging is a
positive operation without use of scavenge trunking, thus there can be
no scavenge fires. Better quality fuel is necessary because of the higher
engine speed, and lubricating oil consumption is higher than for a
slow-speed diesel. Engine height is reduced with trunk piston design and
there are fewer moving parts per cylinder. There are, however, in total
more parts for maintenance, although they are smaller and more
manageable.

The Vee engine configuration is used with some medium-speed
engine designs to further reduce the size and weight for a particular
power.

Couplings, clutches and gearboxes

Where the shaft speed of a medium-speed diesel is not suitable for its
application, e.g. where a low speed drive for a propeller is required, a
gearbox must be provided. Between the engine and gearbox it is usual
to fit some form of flexible coupling to dampen out vibrations. There is
also often a need for a clutch to disconnect the engine from the gearbox.

Couplings

Elastic or flexible couplings allow slight misalignment and damp out or
remove torque variations from the engine. The coupling may in
addition function as a clutch or disconnecting device. Couplings may be
mechanical, electrical, hydraulic or pneumatic in operation. It is usual to
combine the function of clutch with a coupling and this is not readily
possible with the mechanical coupling.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 52 ---
Diesel engines 41

Clutches

A clutch is a device to connect or separate a driving unit from the unit it
drives. With two engines connected to a gearbox a clutch enables one or
both engines to be run, and facilitates reversing of the engine.

The hydraulic or fluid coupling uses oil to connect the driving section
or impeller with the driven section or runner (Figure 2.25). No wear will
thus take place between these two, and the clutch operates smoothly.
The runner and impeller have pockets that face each other which are
filled with oil as they rotate. The engine driven impeller provides kinetic
energy to the oil which transmits the drive to the runner. Thrust
bearings must be provided on either side of the coupling because of the
axial thrust developed by this coupling.

A plate-type clutch consists of pressure plates and clutch plates
arranged in a clutch spider (Figure 2.26). A forward and an aft clutch
assembly are provided, and an externally mounted selector valve
assembly is the control device which hydraulically engages the desired
clutch. The forward clutch assembly is made up of the input shaft and
the forward clutch spider. The input shaft includes the forward driven
gear and, at its extreme end, a hub with the steel pressure plates of the

Circulation

Recirculating
oil drain

Figure 2.25 Hydraulic coupling

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 53 ---
42 Diesel engines

Forward

clutch " Output
Forward jider gear
driven Forward > Input wheel
gear pinion shaft

driven ougput gear Pinion Reverse
gear wheel clutch
spider
(a) (b)

Figure 2.26 Plate-type clutch

forward clutch assembly spline-connected, i.e. free to slide. Thus when
the input shaft turns, the forward driven gear and the forward clutch
pressure plates will rotate. The forward clutch plates are positioned
between the pressure plates and are spline-connected to the forward
clutch spider or housing. This forward clutch spider forms part of the
forward pinion assembly which surrounds but does not touch the input
shaft. The construction of the reverse clutch spider is similar.

Both the forward and reverse pinions are in constant mesh with the
output gear wheel which rotates the output shaft. In the neutral position
the engine is rotating the input shaft and both driven gear wheels, but
not the output shaft. When the clutch selector valve is moved to the
ahead position, a piston assembly moves the clutch plates and pressure
plates into contact. A friction grip is created between the smooth
pressure plate and the clutch plate linings and the forward. pinion
rotates. The forward pinion drives the output shaft and forward
propulsion will occur. The procedure when the selector valve is moved
to the astern position is similar but now the reverse pinion drives the
output shaft in the opposite direction.

Gearboxes

The gearing arrangement used to reduce the medium-speed engine
drive down to suitable propeller revolutions is always single reduction

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 54 ---
Diesel engines 43

and usually single helical. Reduction ratios range from about 2:1 to 4:1
on modern installations.

Pinion and gearwheel arrangements will be similar to those for steam
turbines as described in Chapter 3, except that they will be single helical
or epicyclic.

Reversing

Where a gearbox is used with a diesel engine, reversing gears may be
incorporated so that the engine itself is not reversed. Where a
controllable pitch propeller is in use there is no requirement to reverse
the main engine. However, when it is necessary to run the engine in
reverse it must be started in reverse and the fuel injection timing must be
changed. Where exhaust timing or poppet valves are used they also must
be retimed. With jerk-type fuel pumps the fuel cams on the camshaft
must be repositioned. This can be done by having a separate reversing
cam and moving the camshaft axially to bring it into position.
Alternatively a lost-motion clutch may be used in conjunction with the
ahead pump-timing cam.

The fuel pump cam and lost-motion clutch arrangement is shown in
Figure 2.27. The shaping of the cam results in a period of pumping first
then about 10° of fuel injection before top dead centre and about 5° after
top dead centre. A period of dwell then occurs when the fuel pump
plunger does not move. A fully reversible cam will be symmetrical about
this point, as shown. The angular period between the top dead centre
points for ahead and astern running will be the ‘lost motion’ required for
astern running. The lost-motion clutch or servo motor uses a rotating
vane which is attached to the camshaft but can move in relation to the
camshaft drive from the crankshaft. The vane is shown held in the
ahead operating position by oil pressure. When oil is supplied under
pressure through the drain, the vane will rotate through the lost-motion
angular distance to change the fuel timing for astern operation. The
starting air system is retimed, either by this camshaft movement or by a
directional air supply being admitted to the starting air distributor, to
reposition the cams. Exhaust timing or poppet valves will have their own
lost-motion clutch or servo motor for astern timing.

Some typical marine diesel engines
Sulzer

The RTA72U is a single-acting, low-speed, two-stroke reversible marine
diesel engine manufactured by New Sulzer Diesel Ltd. It is one of the
RTA series engines which were introduced in 1981 and in addition to a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 55 ---
44 Diesel engines

Ahead | Astern
at

Top dead T
centre (TDC), centre (T.D.C.)

—

Fuel pump’
1 Pumping
sam 2 Injection before T.D.C.
3 Injection after T.D.C.
Fuel pump cam 4 Dwelt
Oil drain

Rotating vane

Lost motion clutch

Figure 2.27 Reversing arrangements

longer stroke than the earlier RL series, it has a cylinder-head exhaust
valve providing uniflow scavenging.

The bedplate is single-walled and arranged with an integral thrust
bearing housing at the aft end (Figure 2.28). Cross members are steel
fabrications although the centre section, incorporating the main bearing
saddle tie-bolt housings, may be a steel forging. To resist crankshaft
loading and transverse bending, the main bearing keeps are held down
by jackbolts.

The crankcase chamber is arranged by using individual A-frames for
columns which are also the mountings for the double-slippered
crosshead guides. The A-frames are joined together by heavy steel plates
and short angle girders to form a sturdy box frame. The A-frames in
way of the thrust block are manufactured as a one-piece double column

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 56 ---
Diesel engines 45

Exhaust

Turboblower

Air cooler

Figure 2.28 Sulzer RTA72U engine

to ensure accurate mesh of the camshaft drive gears which are enclosed
in this section.

Individual cast-iron cylinder blocks are bolted together to form a rigid
unit which is mounted onto the A-frames. Tie bolts extend from the top
of the cylinder block to the underside of the main bearing saddles.

The crankshaft is semi-built, with the combined crankpin and
crankweb elements forged from a single element. The journal pins are
then shrunk into the crankwebs. For all but the larger numbers of
engine cylinders, the crankshaft is a single unit. The main journal and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 57 ---
46 Diesel engines

bottom-end bearings are thin-walled shells lined with white metal. The
forged connecting rod has a ‘table top’ upper end for the mounting of
the crosshead bearing. A large crosshead, with floating slippers at each
end, is used. The piston rod is bolted directly to the top of the crosshead
pin. The pistons are oil-cooled and somewhat shorter in length than
earlier designs. There is no piston skirt. Five piston rings are fitted
which are designed to rotate within their grooves.

Cylinder liners have a simple, rotationally symmetrical design with the
scavenge ports at the lower end. The deep collar at the upper end is
bore-cooled, as are all components surrounding the combustion
chamber. Cooling water is fed from below through a water guide
arranged around the liner. Cylinder lubrication is provided by eight
quills arranged around the lower edge of the collar on the liner. The
more recently introduced RTA series engines all have oil-cooled pistons
with oil supplied from the crosshead bearing up through the piston
rod.

A piston rod gland separates the crankcase chamber from the under
piston space. Various scraper and sealing rings are fitted within the
gland.

The cylinder head is a single steel forging arranged for bore cooling
with appropriately drilled holes. Pockets are cut for the air starting valve
and fuel injection valves, the number depending upon the cylinder bore.
The centrally mounted exhaust valve is fitted in a cage with a
bore-cooled valve seat. The valve stem is fitted with a vane-type impeller
to ensure valve rotation. The valve is opened by hydraulic pressure from
pumps driven by the camshaft and closed by compressed air.

The camshaft is located at engine mid-height and is gear driven from
the crankshaft. The initial gear drive is bolted to the rim of the thrust
block and a single intermediate wheel is used. On larger-bore,
high-powered engines the gear drive is in the centre of the engine. The
camshaft extends the length of the engine and each individual segment
carries the exhaust valve actuating and fuel-injection pumps plus the
reversing servo motor for one pair of cylinders.

Constant-pressure turbocharging is used, and electrically driven
blowers cut in automatically when the engine load is at about 40% of the
maximum continuous rating.

Lubricating oil is supplied to a low- and a medium-pressure system.
The low-pressure system supplies the main and other bearings. The
crosshead bearing, reversing servo motors and exhaust valve actuators
are supplied by the medium-pressure system. Cylinder oil is supplied to
lubricators from a high-level service tank.

Double valve controlled, variable injection timing is used to deliver
fuel to multiple, uncooled injectors and an electronic governor is
supplied as standard. Where the engine has oil-cooled pistols they will

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 58 ---
Diesel engines 47

be supplied from the lubricating oil system, possibly at a higher pressure
produced by booster pumps, e.g. the Sulzer RTA engine. An appropriate
type of lubricating oil must be used for oil-lubricated pistons in order to
avoid carbon deposits on the hotter parts of the system.

MAN B&W

The L70MC is a single-acting, low-speed two-stroke reversible marine
diesel engine manufactured by MAN B&W. It is one of the MC series
introduced in 1982, and has a longer stroke and increased maximum
pressure when compared with the earlier L-GF and L-GB designs.

The bedplate is made of welded longitudinal girders and welded cross
girders with cast-steel bearing supports (Figure 2.29). The frame box is
mounted on the bedplate and may be of cast or welded design. On the
exhaust side of the engine a relief valve and manhole are provided for
each cylinder. On the camshaft side a larger hinged door is provided.
The cylinder frame units which comprise one or more cylinders are of
cast iron and bolted together to form the requisite number of engine
cylinders. Together with the cylinder liners they form the scavenge air
space and the cooling water space. The double bottom in the scavenge
space is water cooled. The stuffing box fitted around the piston rod has
sealing rings to stop the leakage of scavenge air and scraper rings to
prevent oil entering the scavenge space.

On the camshaft side, access covers are provided for inspection and
cleaning of the scavenge space. The cylinder cover is a single piece of
forged steel, and has bored holes for cooling water circulation. It has a
central opening for the exhaust valves and appropriate pockets for the
fuel valves, a relief valve, a starting air valve and the indicator cock. The
exhaust valve housing is fitted into the centre of the cylinder head. It is
opened hydraulically and closed by air pressure. During operation the
exhaust valve rotates. The bedplate, frame box and cylinder frames are
connected together with staybolts to form the individual units. Each
staybolt is braced to prevent transverse oscillations.

The crankshaft may be solid or semi-built on a cylinder by cylinder
basis. A shaft piece with a thrust collar is incorporated into the
crankshaft and at the after end has a flange for the turning wheel. At the
forward end a flange is fitted for the mounting of a tuning device or
counterweights.

The running gear consists of a piston, a piston rod and crosshead
assembly and a forged steel connecting rod. The crosshead moves in
guide shoes which are fitted on the frame box ends. The camshaft has
several sections, each of which consists of a shaft piece with exhaust
cams, fuel cams and couplings. It is driven by a chain drive from the
crankshaft.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 59 ---
48 Diesel engines

Exhaust valve

Constant-pressure
receiver

Figure 2.29 MAN B&W L70MC engine

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 60 ---
Figure 2.30 Pielstick PC4 engine


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 61 ---
50 Diesel engines

Exhaust gas from the engine is passed into a constant-pressure
receiver and then into the turbochargers. Scavenging is uniflow, and
electrically driven auxiliary blowers are automatically started during
low-load operation.

Lubricating oil is supplied to the various bearings and also to the
pistons for cooling. Cylinder oil is supplied via lubricators from a
high-level service tank. A separate lubrication system is provided for the
camshaft bearings to prevent contamination of the main lubricating oil
system. Fresh water cooling is provided for the cylinder jackets, cylinder
covers and exhaust valves.

The engine is designed to run on diesel oil or heavy fuel oil. An
electronic governor is provided as standard.

Pielstick

The Pielstick PC series engines are single-acting, medium-speed,
four-stroke reversible types. Both in-line and V-configurations are
available. The running gear, being a trunk-type engine, is made up of
the piston and the connecting rod which joins the single-throw
crankshaft. The arrangement of a PC4 engine is shown in Figure 2.30.

The crankcase and frame are constructed from heavy plate and steel
castings to produce a low-weight rigid structure. The crankshaft is
underslung and this arrangement confines all stresses to the frame
structure. The crankshaft is a one-piece forging and the connecting rods
are H-section steel stampings. The one-piece cylinder head contains two
exhaust and two inlet valves together with a starting air valve, a relief
valve, indicator cock and a centrally positioned fuel injector.

Exhaust-gas-driven turbo-chargers operating on the pulse system
supply pressurised air to the engine cylinders.

Bearing lubrication and piston cooling are supplied from a common
system. The engine has a dry sump with oil suction being taken from a
separate tank.

The cylinder jackets are water-cooled together with the cylinder heads
and the exhaust valve cages. The charge air cooler may be fresh-water or
sea-water cooled as required.

Fuel injection uses the jerk pump system, and a Woodward-type
hydraulic governor is used to control engine speed.

Later versions of the PC series engine are described as PC20 and PC40
and have somewhat increased scantlings.

Operating procedures

Medium- and slow-speed diesel engines will follow a fairly similar
procedure for starting and manoeuvring. Where reversing gearboxes or

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 62 ---
Diesel engines 51

controllable-pitch propellers are used then engine reversing is not
necessary. A general procedure is now given for engine operation which
details the main points in their correct sequence. Where a manufactur-
er’s instruction book is available this should be consulted and used.

Preparations for standby

L.

9.

Before a large diesel is started it must be warmed through by
circulating hot water through the jackets, etc. This will enable the
various engine parts to expand in relation to one another.

. The various supply tanks, filters, valves and drains are all to be

checked.

. The lubricating oil pumps and circulating water pumps are started

and all the visible returns should be observed.

. All control equipment and alarms should be examined for correct

operation.

. The indicator cocks are opened, the turning gear engaged and the

engine turned through several complete revolutions. In this way any
water which may have collected in the cylinders will be forced out.

6. The fuel oil system is checked and circulated with hot oil.
7.
8. The turning gear is removed and if possible the engine should be

Auxiliary scavenge blowers, if manually operated, should be started.

turned over on air before closing the indicator cocks.
The engine is now available for standby.

The length of time involved in these preparations will depend upon the
size of the engine.

Engine starting

1.

The direction handle is positioned ahead or astern. This handle may
be built into the telegraph reply lever. The camshaft is thus
positioned relative to the crankshaft to operate the various cams for
fuel injection, valve operation, etc.

. The manceuvring handle is moved to ‘start’. This will admit

compressed air into the cylinders in the correct sequence to turn the
engine in the desired direction.A separate air start button may be
used.

. When the engine reaches its firing speed the manceuvring handle is

moved to the running position. Fuel is admitted and the combustion
process will accelerate the engine and starting air admission will
cease.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 63 ---
52

Diesel engines

Engine reversing

When running at manceuvring speeds:

1.

2.
3

Where manually operated auxiliary blowers are fitted they should be
started.
The fuel supply is shut off and the engine will quickly slow down.

. The direction handle is positioned astern.
. Compressed air is admitted to the engine to turn it in the astern

direction.

. When turning astern under the action of compressed air, fuel will be

admitted. The combustion process will take over and air admission
cease.

When running at full speed:

CUR ODO

. The auxiliary blowers, where manually operated, should be started.
. Fuel is shut off from the engine.

. Blasts of compressed air may be used to slow the engine down.

. When the engine is stopped the direction handle is positioned astern.
. Compressed air is admitted to turn the engine astern and fuel is

admitted to accelerate the engine. The compressed air supply will
then cease.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 64 ---
Chapter 3
Steam turbines and gearing

The steam turbine has until recently been the first choice for very large
power main propulsion units. Its advantages of little or no vibration, low
weight, minimal space requirements and low maintenance costs are
considerable. Furthermore a turbine can be provided for any power
rating likely to be required for marine propulsion. However, the higher
specific fuel consumption when compared with a diesel engine offsets
these advantages, although refinements such as reheat have narrowed
the gap.

The steam turbine is a device for obtaining mechanical work from the
energy stored in steam. Steam enters the turbine with a high energy
content and leaves after giving up most of it. The high-pressure steam
from the boiler is expanded in nozzles to create a high-velocity jet of
steam. The nozzle acts to convert heat energy in the steam into kinetic
energy. This jet is directed into blades mounted on the periphery of a
wheel or disc (Figure 3.1). The steam does not ‘blow the wheel around’.
The shaping of the blades causes a change in direction and hence
velocity of the steam jet. Now a change in velocity for a given mass flow
of steam will produce a force which acts to turn the turbine wheel, i.e.
mass flow of steam (kg/s) x change in velocity (m/s) = force (kg m/s’).

Force rotating wheel

Nozzle
plate Change in direction
(velocity) of steam
Energy conversion
in nozzle
Pressure to kinetic
Steam
Steam exit
entry Blades mounted
around wheel

Figure 3.1 Energy conversion in a steam turbine

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 65 ---
54 Steam turbines and gearing

This is the operating principle of all steam turbines, although the
arrangements may vary considerably. The steam from the first set of
blades then passes to another set of nozzles and then blades and so on
along the rotor shaft until it is finally exhausted. Each set comprising
nozzle and blades is called a stage.

Turbine types

There are two main types of turbine, the ‘impulse’ and the ‘reaction’.
The names refer to the type of force which acts on the blades to turn the
turbine wheel.

Impulse

The impulse arrangement is made up of a ring of nozzles followed by a
ring of blades. The high-pressure, high-energy steam is expanded in the
nozzle to a lower-pressure, high-velocity jet of steam. This jet of steam is
directed into the impulse blades and leaves in a different direction
(Figure 3.2). The changing direction and therefore velocity produces an
impulsive force which mainly acts in the direction of rotation of the
turbine blades. There is only a very small end thrust on the turbine
shaft.

Rotation

Figure 3.2 Impulse blading

Reaction

The reaction arrangement is made up of a ring of fixed blades attached
to the casing, and a row of similar blades mounted on the rotor, i.e.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 66 ---
Steam turbines and gearing 55

moving blades (Figure 3.3). The blades are mounted and shaped to
produce a narrowing passage which, like a nozzle, increases the steam
velocity. This increase in velocity over the blade produces a reaction
force which has components in the direction of blade rotation and also
along the turbine axis. There is also a change in velocity of the steam as a
result of a change in direction and an impulsive force is also produced
with this type of blading. The more correct term for this blade
arrangement is ‘impulse-reaction’.

Rotation

Figure 3.3 Reaction blading

Compounding

Compounding is the splitting up, into two or more stages, of the steam
pressure or velocity change through a turbine.

Pressure compounding of an impulse turbine is the use of a number
of stages of nozzle and blade to reduce progressively the steam pressure.
This results in lower or more acceptable steam flow speeds and a better
turbine efficiency.

Velocity compounding of an impulse turbine is the use of a single
nozzle with an arrangement of several moving blades on a single disc.
Between the moving blades are fitted guide blades which are connected
to the turbine casing. This arrangement produces a short lightweight
turbine with a poorer efficiency which would be acceptable in, for
example, an astern turbine.

The two arrangements may be combined to give what is called
‘pressure-velocity compounding’.

The reaction turbine as a result of its blade arrangement changes the
steam velocity in both fixed and moving blades with consequent gradual
steam pressure reduction. Its basic arrangement therefore provides
compounding.

The term ‘cross-compound’ is used to describe a steam turbine unit
made up of a high pressure and a low pressure turbine (Figure 3.4). This
is the usual main propulsion turbine arrangement. The alternative is a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 67 ---
56 Steam turbines and gearing

Figure 3.4 Cross compound turbine arrangement

single cylinder unit which would be usual for turbo-generator sets,
although some have been fitted for main propulsion service.

Reheat

Reheating is a means of improving the thermal efficiency of the
complete turbine plant. Steam, after expansion in the high-pressure
turbine, is returned to the boiler to be reheated to the original superheat
temperature. It is then returned to the turbine and further expanded
through any remaining stages of the high-pressure turbine and then the
low-pressure turbine.

Named turbine types

A number of famous names are associated with certain turbine types.

Parsons. A reaction turbine where steam expansion takes place in the
fixed and moving blades. A stage is made up of one of each blade type.
Half of the stage heat drop occurs in each blade type, therefore
providing 50% reaction per stage.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 68 ---
Steam turbines and gearing 69

From L P turbine Primary From HP

Primary
wheel turbine ini
~

pinion

Secondary
pinion

Figure 3.14 Double reduction system of gearing

Flexible coupling

A flexible coupling is always fitted between the turbine rotor and the
gearbox pinion. It permits slight rotor and pinion misalignment as well
as allowing for axial movement of the rotor due to expansion. Various
designs of flexible coupling are in use using teeth, flexible discs,
membranes, etc.

The membrane-type flexible coupling shown in Figure 3.15 is made
up of a torque tube, membranes and adaptor plates, The torque tube fits
between the turbine rotor and the gearbox pinion. The adaptor plates
are spigoted and dowelled onto the turbine and pinion flanges and the
membrane plates are bolted between the torque tube and the adaptor
plates. The flexing of the membrane plates enables axial and transverse
movement to take place. The torque tube enters the adaptor plate with a
clearance which will provide an emergency centring should the
membranes fail. The bolts in their clearance holes would provide the
continuing drive until the shaft could be stopped.

Turning gear

The turning gear on a turbine installation is a reversible electric motor
driving a gearwheel which meshes into the high-pressure turbine
primary pinion. It is used for gearwheel and turbine rotation during
maintenance or when warming-through prior to manoeuvring.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 69 ---
70 Steam turbines and gearing

Adaptor
plate

Membrane
Figure 3.15 Flexible coupling

Operating procedures

The steam turbine requires a considerable period for warming-through
prior to any manoeuvring taking place. The high-speed operation of the
turbine and its simply supported rotor also require great care during
manceuvring operations.

Warming-through a steam turbine

First open all the turbine-casing and main steam-line drain valves and
ensure that all the steam control valves at the manceuvring station and
around the turbine are closed. All bled steam-line drain valves should be
opened. Start the lubricating oil pump and see that the oil is flowing
freely to each bearing and gear sprayer, venting off air if necessary and
check that the gravity tank is overflowing.

Obtain clearance from the bridge to turn the shaft. Engage the
turning gear and rotate the turbines in each direction.

Start the sea water circulating pump for the main condenser. Then
start the condensate extraction pump with the air ejector recirculation
valve wide open. Open the manceuvring valve bypass or ‘warming
through’ valve, if fitted. This allows a small quantity of steam to pass
through the turbine and heat it. Raising a small vacuum in the
condenser will assist this warming through. The turbines should be
continuously turned with the turning gear until a temperature of about
75°C is reached at the LP turbine inlet after about one hour. The
expansion arrangements on the turbine to allow freedom of movement
should be checked.

Gland sealing steam should now be partially opened up and the
vacuum increased. The turning gear should now be disengaged.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 70 ---
Steam turbines and gearing 71

Short blasts of steam are now admitted to the turbine through the
main valve to spin the propeller about one revolution. This should be
repeated about every three to five minutes for a period of 15 to 30
minutes. The vacuum can now be raised to its operational value and also
the gland steam pressure. The turbines are now ready for use.

While waiting for the first movements from the bridge, and between
movements, the turbine must be turned ahead once every five minutes
by steam blasts. If there is any delay gland steam and the vacuum should
be reduced.

Maneeuvring

Once warmed through, the turbine rotor must not remain stationary
more than a few minutes at a time because the rotor could sag or distort,
which would lead to failure, if not regularly rotated.

Astern operation involves admitting steam to the astern turbines.
Where any considerable period of astern running occurs turbine
temperatures, noise levels, bearings, etc., must be closely observed. The
turbine manufacturer may set a time limit of about 30 minutes on
continuous running astern.

Emergency astern operation

If, when travelling at full speed ahead, an order for an emergency stop
or astern movement is required then safe operating procedures must be
ignored.

Ahead steam is shut off, probably by the use of an emergency trip, and
the astern steam valve is partly opened to admit a gradually increasing
amount of steam. The turbine can thus be brought quickly to a stopped
condition and if required can then be operated astern.

The stopping of the turbine or its astern operation will occur about 10
to 15 minutes before a similar state will occur for the ship. The use of
emergency procedures can lead to serious damage in the turbine,
gearbox or boilers.

Full away

Manceuvring revolutions are usually about 80% of the full away or full
speed condition. Once the full away command is received the turbine
can gradually be brought up to full power operation, a process taking
one to two hours. This will also involve bringing into use turbo-
alternators which use steam removed or ‘bled’ at some stage from the
main turbines.

Checks should be made on expansion arrangements, drains should be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 71 ---
72 Steam turbines and gearing

checked to be closed, the condensate recirculation valve after the air
ejector should be closed, and the astern steam valves tightly closed.

Port arrival

Prior to arriving at a port the bridge should provide one to two hours’
notice to enable the turbines to be brought down to manceuvring
revolutions. A diesel alternator will have to be started, the turbo-
alternator shut down, and ail the full away procedure done in reverse
order.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 72 ---
Chapter 4
Boilers

A boiler in one form or another will be found on every type of ship.
Where the main machinery is steam powered, one or more large water-
tube boilers will be fitted to produce steam at very high temperatures
and pressures. On a diesel main machinery vessel, a smaller (usually
firetube type) boiler will be fitted to provide steam for the various ship
services. Even within the two basic design types, watertube and firetube,
a variety of designs and variations exist.

A boiler is used to heat feedwater in order to produce steam. The
energy released by the burning fuel in the boiler furnace is stored (as
temperature and pressure) in the steam produced. All boilers have a
furnace or combustion chamber where fuel is burnt to release its energy.
Air is supplied to the boiler furnace to enable combustion of the fuel to
take place. A large surface area between the combustion chamber and
the water enables the energy of combustion, in the form of heat, to be
transferred to the water.

A drum must be provided where steam and water can separate. There
must also be a variety of fittings and controls to ensure that fuel oil, air
and feedwater supplies are matched to the demand for steam. Finally
there must be a number of fittings or mountings which ensure the safe
operation of the boiler.

In the steam generation process the feedwater enters the boiler where
it is heated and becomes steam. The feedwater circulates from the steam
drum to the water drum and is heated in the process. Some of the
feedwater passes through tubes surrounding the furnace, i.e. waterwall
and floor tubes, where it is heated and returned to the steam drum.
Large-bore downcomer tubes are used to circulate feedwater between
the drums. The downcomer tubes pass outside of the furnace and join
the steam and water drums. The steam is produced in a steam drum and
may be drawn off for use from here. It is known as ‘wet’ or saturated
steam in this condition because it will contain small quantities of water.
Alternatively the steam may pass to a superheater which is located within
the boiler. Here steam is further heated and ‘dried’, i.e. all traces of

73

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 73 ---
74 Boilers

water are converted into steam. This superheated steam then leaves the
boiler for use in the system. The temperature of superheated steam will
be above that of the steam in the drum. An ‘attemperator’, i.e. a steam
cooler, may be fitted in the system to control the superheated steam
temperature.

The hot gases produced in the furnace are used to heat the feedwater
to produce steam and also to superheat the steam from the boiler drum.
The gases then pass over an economiser through which the feedwater
passes before it enters the boiler. The exhaust gases may also pass over
an air heater which warms the combustion air before it enters the
furnace. In this way a large proportion of the heat energy from the hot
gases is used before they are exhausted from the funnel. The
arrangement is shown in Figure 4.1.

Air cooled or located
in boiter drum

pow ene ee eee

header Floor tube

Figure 4.1 Simplified boiler arrangement

Two basically different types of boiler exist, namely the watertube and
the firetube. In the watertube the feedwater is passed through the tubes
and the hot gases pass over them. In the firetube boiler the hot gases
pass through the tubes and the feedwater surrounds them.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 74 ---
Boilers = 75

Boiler types

The watertube boiler is employed for high-pressure, high-temperature,
high-capacity steam applications, e.g. providing steam for main
propulsion turbines or cargo pump turbines. Firetube boilers are used
for auxiliary purposes to provide smaller quantities of low-pressure
steam on diesel engine powered ships.

Watertube boilers

The construction of watertube boilers, which use small-diameter tubes
and have a small steam drum, enables the generation or production of
steam at high temperatures and pressures. The weight of the boiler is
much less than an equivalent firetube boiler and the steam raising

Figure 4.2 Foster Wheeler D-Type boiler

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 75 ---
76 Boilers

process is much quicker. Design arrangements are flexible, efficiency is
high and the feedwater has a good natural circulation. These are some
of the many reasons why the watertube boiler has replaced the firetube
boiler as the major steam producer.

Early watertube boilers used a single drum. Headers were connected
to the drum by short, bent pipes with straight tubes between the headers.
The hot gases from the furnace passed over the tubes, often in a single
pass.

A later development was the bent tube design. This boiler has two
drums, an integral furnace and is often referred to as the ‘D’ type
because of its shape (Figure 4.2). The furnace is at the side of the two
drums and is surrounded on all sides by walls of tubes. These waterwall
tubes are connected either to upper and lower headers or a lower header
and the steam drum. Upper headers are connected by return tubes to
the steam drum. Between the steam drum and the smaller water drum
below, large numbers of smaller-diameter generating tubes are fitted.

Economiser

First pass superheater
Attemperator

P| Second pass
" superheater

Figure 4.3 Foster Wheeler Type ESD I boiler

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 76 ---
Boilers = 77

These provide the main heat transfer surfaces for steam generation.
Large-bore pipes or downcomers are fitted between the steam and water
drum to ensure good natural circulation of the water. In the
arrangement shown, the superheater is located between the drums,
protected from the very hot furnace gases by several rows of screen
tubes. Refractory material or brickwork is used on the furnace floor, the
burner wall and also behind the waterwalls. The double casing of the
boiler provides a passage for the combustion air to the air control or
register surrounding the burner.

The need for a wider range of superheated steam temperature
control led to other boiler arrangements being used. The original
External Superheater ‘D’ (ESD) type of boiler used a primary and
secondary superheater located after the main generating tube bank
(Figure 4.3). An attemperator located in the combustion air path was
used to control the steam temperature.

The later ESD II type boiler was similar in construction to the ESD I
but used a control unit (an additional economiser) between the primary
and secondary superheaters. Linked dampers directed the hot gases
over the control unit or the superheater depending upon the superheat
temperature required. The control unit provided a bypass path for the
gases when low temperature superheating was required.

In the ESD III boiler the burners are located in the furnace roof,
which provides a long flame path and even heat transfer throughout the
furnace. In the boiler shown in Figure 4.4, the furnace is fully
water-cooled and of monowali construction, which is produced from
finned tubes welded together to form a gastight casing. With monowall
construction no refractory material is mecessary in the furnace.

The furnace side, floor and roof tubes are welded into the steam and
water drums. The front and rear walls are connected at either end to
upper and lower water-wall headers. The lower water-wall headers are
connected by external downcomers from the steam drum and the upper
water-wall headers are connected to the steam drum by riser tubes.

The gases leaving the furnace pass through screen tubes which are
arranged to permit flow between them. The large number of tubes
results in considerable heat transfer before the gases reach the
secondary superheater. The gases then flow over the primary
superheater and the economiser before passing to exhaust. The dry
pipe is located in the steam drum to obtain reasonably dry saturated
steam from the boiler. This is then passed to the primary superheater
and then to the secondary superheater. Steam temperature control is
achieved by the use of an attemperator, located in the steam drum,
operating between the primary and secondary superheaters.

Radiant-type boilers are a more recent development, in which the
radiant heat of combustion is absorbed to raise steam, being transmitted

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 77 ---
78 Boilers

Inlet heater

— Feed water pipe
-— Saturated off-take

_Steam drum
Ory pipe
Perforated plates ~
Upper front water wall
header-furnace side
lmmace reert 6 O78 . sPmegy- Superheater primary
inlet header

Uptakes

Superheater primary
outlet header
Superheater secondary
outlet header

Superheater secondary
inlet header

Lower front water wall
header-furnace side

Sootblower a

Water drum

Downcomers

Superheater
Main bank screen tubes

7 Lower front water wall
header-superheater side

Figure 4.4 Foster Wheeler Type ESD III monowall boiler

by infra-red radiation. This usually requires roof firing and a
considerable height in order to function efficiently. The ESD IV boiler
shown in Figure 4.5 is of the radiant type. Both the furnace and the
outer chamber are fully watercooled. There is no conventional bank of
generating tubes. The hot gases leave the furnace through an opening at
the lower end of the screen wall and pass to the outer chamber. The
outer chamber contains the convection heating surfaces which include
the primary and secondary superheaters. Superheat temperature
control is by means of an attemperator in the steam drum. The hot
gases, after leaving the primary superheater, pass over a steaming
economiser. This is a heat exchanger in which the steam—water mixture

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 78 ---
Boilers 79

WATER WALL
RISERS.

BURNERS (3)

PART SECTIONAL PLAN

Figure 4.5 Foster Wheeler radiant-type boiler

is flowing parallel to the gas. The furnace gases finally pass over a
conventional economiser on their way to the funnel.

Reheat boilers are used with reheat arranged turbine systems. Steam
after expansion in the high-pressure turbine is returned to a reheater in
the boiler. Here the steam energy content is raised before it is supplied
to the low-pressure turbine. Reheat boilers are based on boiler designs
such as the ‘D’ type or the radiant type.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 79 ---
80 Boilers

Furnace wall construction

The problems associated with furnace refractory materials, particularly
on vertical walls, have resulted in two water-wall arrangements without
exposed refractory. These are known as ‘tangent tube’ and ‘monowall’ or
‘membrane wall’.

In the tangent tube arrangement closely pitched tubes are backed by
refractory, insulation and the boiler casing (Figure 4.6(a)). In the
monowall or membrane wall arrangement the tubes have a steel strip
welded between them to form a completely gas-tight enclosure (Figure
4.6(b)). Only a layer of insulation and cleading is required on the outside
of this construction.

(b) Monowall arrangement

Figure 4.6 Furnace wall construction

The monowall construction eliminates the problems of refractory and
expanded joints. However, in the event of tube failure, a welded repair
must be carried out. Alternatively the tube can be plugged at either end,
but refractory material must be placed over the failed tube to protect the
insulation behind it. With tangent tube construction a failed tube can be
plugged and the boiler operated normally without further attention.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 80 ---
Boilers 83

Firetube boilers

The firetube boiler is usually chosen for low-pressure steam production
on vessels requiring steam for auxiliary purposes. Operation is simple
and feedwater of medium quality may be employed. The name ‘tank
boiler’ is sometimes used for firetube boilers because of their large water
capacity. The terms ‘smoke tube’ and ‘donkey boiler’ are also in use.

Package boilers

Most firetube boilers are now supplied as a completely packaged unit.
This will include the oil burner, fuel pump, forced-draught fan, feed
pumps and automatic controls for the system. The boiler will be fitted
with all the appropriate boiler mountings.

A single-furnace three-pass design is shown in Figure 4.7. The first
pass is through the partly corrugated furnace and into the cylindrical
wetback combustion chamber. The second pass is back over the furnace
through small-bore smoke tubes and then the flow divides at the front
central smoke box. The third pass is through outer smoke tubes to the
gas exit at the back of the boiler.

There is no combustion chamber refractory lining other than a lining

Main steam
stop valve

Double spring
safety valve

Forced draught
fan compartment

Access ladder
and platform

Gas exit flange Pressure gauge

ee 1 — Forced
al draught fan

Pressurized
plenum chamber

Al Combustion
appliance

valve

Water inlet Control panel

strainer Feed pump

Figure 4.7 Package boiler

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 81 ---
82 Boilers

to the combustion chamber access door and the primary and secondary
quarl.

Fully automatic controls are provided and located in a control panel at
the side of the boiler.

Cochran boilers

The modern vertical Cochran boiler has a fully spherical furnace and is
known as the ‘spheroid’ (Figure 4.8). The furnace is surrounded by
water and therefore requires no refractory lining. The hot gases make a
single pass through the horizontal tube bank before passing away to
exhaust. The use of small-bore tubes fitted with retarders ensures better
heat transfer and cleaner tubes as a result of the turbulent gas flow.

Composite boilers

A composite boiler arrangement permits steam generation either by oil
firing when necessary or by using the engine exhaust gases when the
ship is at sea. Composite boilers are based on firetube boiler designs.
The Cochran boiler, for example, would have a section of the tube bank
separately arranged for the engine exhaust gases to pass through and
exit via their own exhaust duct.

Manhole

Figure 4.8 Cochran spheroid boiler

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 82 ---
Boilers 83
Other boiler arrangements

Apart from straightforward watertube and firetube boilers, other steam
raising equipment is in use, e.g. the steam-to-steam generator, the
double evaporation boiler and various exhaust gas boiler arrangements.

The steam-to-steam generator

Steam-to-steam generators produce low-pressure saturated steam for
domestic and other services. They are used in conjunction with
watertube boilers to provide a secondary steam circuit which avoids any
possible contamination of the primary-circuit feedwater. The arrange-
ment may be horizontal or vertical with coils within the shell which heat
the feedwater. The coils are supplied with high-pressure, high-
temperature steam from the main boiler. A horizontal steam-to-steam
generator is shown in Figure 4.9.

Figure 4.9 Steam-to-steam generator

Double evaporation boilers

A double evaporation boiler uses two independent systems for steam
generation and therefore avoids any contamination between the
primary and secondary feedwater. The primary circuit is in effect a
conventional watertube boiler which provides steam to the heating coils
of a steam-to-steam generator, which is the secondary system. The
complete boiler is enclosed in a pressurised casing.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 83 ---
84 Boilers

Exhaust gas heat exchangers

The use of exhaust gases from diesel main propulsion engines to
generate steam is a means of heat energy recovery and improved plant
efficiency.

An exhaust gas heat exchanger is shown in Figure 4.10. It is simply a
row of tube banks circulated by feedwater over which the exhaust gases
flow. Individual banks may be arranged to provide feed heating, steam
generation and superheating. A boiler drum is required for steam
generation and separation to take place and use is usually made of the
drum of an auxiliary boiler.

Exhaust gas
7 heat exchanger

Superheated steam to
turbo-generator set

x
Saturated

3 Circulating pump

Figure 4.10 Auxiliary steam plant system

Auxiliary steam plant system

The auxiliary steam installation provided in modern diesel powered
tankers usually uses an exhaust gas heat exchanger at the base of the
funnel and one or perhaps two watertube boilers (Figure 4.10).
Saturated or superheated steam may be obtained from the auxiliary
boiler. At sea it acts as a steam receiver for the exhaust-gas heat
exchanger, which is circulated through it. In port it is oil-fired in the
usual way.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 84 ---
Boilers 85

Exhaust gas boilers

Auxiliary boilers on diesel main propulsion ships, other than tankers,
are usually of composite form, enabling steam generation using oil firing
or the exhaust gases from the diesel engine. With this arrangement the
boiler acts as the heat exchanger and raises steam in its own drum.

Boiler mountings

Certain fittings are necessary on a boiler to ensure its safe operation.
They are usually referred to as boiler mountings. The mountings
usually found on a boiler are:

Safety valves. These are mounted in pairs to protect the boiler against
overpressure. Once the valve lifting pressure is set in the presence of a
Surveyor it is locked and cannot be changed. The valve is arranged to
open automatically at the pre-set blow-off pressure.

Main steam stop valve. This valve is fitted in the main steam supply line
and is usually of the non-return type.

Auxiliary steam stop valve. This is a smaller valve fitted in the auxiliary
steam supply line, and is usually of the non-return type.

Feed check or control valve. A pair of valves are fitted: one is the main
valve, the other the auxiliary or standby. They are non-return valves and
must give an indication of their open and closed position.

Water level gauge. Water level gauges or ‘gauge glasses’ are fitted in
pairs, at opposite ends of the boiler. The construction of the level gauge
depends upon the boiler pressure.

Pressure gauge connection. Where necessary on the boiler drum,
superheater, etc., pressure gauges are fitted to provide pressure
readings.

Air release cock. These are fitted in the headers, boiler drum, etc., to
release air when filling the boiler or initially raising steam.

Sampling connection. A water outlet cock and cooling arrangement is
provided for the sampling and analysis of feed water. A provision may
also be made for injecting water treatment chemicals.

Blow down valve. This valve enables water to be blown down or emptied
from the boiler. It may be used when partially or completely emptying
the boiler.

Scum valve. A shallow dish positioned at the normal water level is
connected to the scum valve. This enables the blowing down or removal
of scum and impurities from the water surface.

Whistle stop valve. This is a small bore non-return valve which supplies
the whistle with steam straight from the boiler drum.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 85 ---
86 Boilers

Boiler mountings (water-tube boilers)

Watertube boilers, because of their smaller water content in relation to
their steam raising capacity, require certain additional mountings:

Automatic feed water regulator. Fitted in the feed line prior to the main
check valve, this device is essential to ensure the correct water level in the
boiler during all load conditions. Boilers with a high evaporation rate
will use a multiple-element feed water control system (see Chapter 15).

Low level alarm. A device to provide audible warning of low water level
conditions.

Superheater circulating valves. Acting also as air vents, these fittings
ensure a flow of steam when initially warming through and raising steam
in the boiler.

Sootblowers. Operated by steam or compressed air, they act to blow
away soot and the products of combustion from the tube surfaces.
Several are fitted in strategic places. The sootblower lance is inserted,
soot is blown and the lance is withdrawn.

Water level gauges

The water level gauge provides a visible indication of the water level in
the boiler in the region of the correct working level. If the water level
were too high then water might pass out of the boiler and do serious
damage to any equipment designed to accept steam. If the water level
were too low then the heat transfer surfaces might become exposed to
excessive temperatures and fail. Constant attention to the boiler water
level is therefore essential. Due to the motion of the ship it is necessary to
have a water level gauge at each end of the boiler to correctly observe the
level.

Depending upon the boiler operating pressure, one of two basically
different types of water level gauge will be fitted.

For boiler pressures up to a maximum of 17 bar a round glass tube
type of water level gauge is used. The glass tube is connected to the
boiler shell by cocks and pipes, as shown in Figure 4.11. Packing rings
are positioned at the tube ends to give a tight seal and prevent leaks. A
guard is usually placed around the tube to protect it from accidental
damage and to avoid injury to any personnel in the vicinity if the tube
shatters. The water level gauge is usually connected directly to the
boiler. Isolating cocks are fitted in the steam and water passages, and a
drain cock is also present. A ball valve is fitted below the tube to shut off
the water should the tube break and water attempt to rush out.

For boiler pressures above 17 bar a plate-glass-type water level gauge
is used. The glass tube is replaced by an assembly made up of glass plates
within a metal housing, as shown in Figure 4.12. The assembly is made

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 86 ---
Boilers 87

Glass tube —

Figure 4.11 Tubular gauge glass

up as a ‘sandwich’ of front and back metal plates with the glass plates and
acentre metal plate between. Joints are placed between the glass and the
metal plate and a mica sheet placed over the glass surface facing the
water and steam. The mica sheet is an effective insulation to prevent the
glass breaking at the very high temperature. When bolting up this
assembly, care must be taken to ensure even all-round tightening of the
bolts. Failure to do this will result in a leaking assembly and possibly
shattered glass plates.

In addition to the direct-reading water level gauges, remote-reading
level indicators are usually led to machinery control rooms.

It is possible for the small water or steam passages to block with scale
or dirt and the gauge will give an incorrect reading. To check that

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 87 ---
88 Boilers

Di : d

to bil - res trom Drain cock
ge firing platform ‘body
Detail of ball vaive

Figure 4.12 Plate-type gauge glass

passages are clear a ‘blowing through’ procedure should be followed.
Referring to Figure 4.11, close the water cock B and open drain cock C.
The boiler pressure should produce a strong jet of steam from the drain.
Cock A is now closed and Cock B opened. A jet of water should now pass
through the drain. The absence of a flow through the drain will indicate
that the passage to the open cock is blocked.

Safety valves

Safety valves are fitted in pairs, usually on a single valve chest. Each valve
must be able to release all the steam the boiler can produce without the
pressure rising by more than 10% over a set period.

Spring-loaded valves are always fitted on board ship because of their
positive action at any inclination. They are positioned on the boiler
drum in the steam space. The ordinary spring loaded safety valve is
shown in Figure 4.13. The valve is held closed by the helical spring

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 88 ---
Boilers 89

Dh

nut

Split ring:

NZ

Figure 4.13 Ordinary spring-loaded safety valve

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 89 ---
90 Boilers

whose pressure is set by the compression nut at the top. The spring
pressure, once set, is fixed and sealed by a Surveyor. When the steam
exceeds this pressure the valve is opened and the spring compressed.
The escaping steam is then led through a waste pipe up the funnel and
out to atmosphere. The compression of the spring by the initial valve
opening results in more pressure being necessary to compress the spring
and open the valve further. To some extent this is countered by a lip
arrangement on the valve lid which gives a greater area for the steam to
act on once the valve is open. A manually operated easing gear enables
the valve to be opened in an emergency. Various refinements to the
ordinary spring-loaded safety valve have been designed to give a higher
lift to the valve.

The improved high-lift safety valve has a modified arrangement
around the lower spring carrier, as shown in Figure 4.14. The lower

Steam from boiler
Figure 4.14 Improved high-lift safety valve

spring carrier is arranged as a piston for the steam to act on its
underside. A loose ring around the piston acts as a containing cylinder
for the steam. Steam ports or access holes are provided in the guide
plate. Waste steam released as the valve opens acts on the piston
underside to give increased force against the spring, causing the valve to
open further. Once the overpressure has been relieved, the spring force
will quickly close the valve. The valve seats are usually shaped to trap
some steam to ‘cushion’ the closing of the valve.

A drain pipe is fitted on the outlet side of the safety valve to remove

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 90 ---
Boilers 91

any condensed steam which might otherwise collect above the valve and
stop it opening at the correct pressure.

Combustion

Combustion is the burning of fuel in air in order to release heat energy.
For complete and efficient combustion the correct quantities of fuel and
air must be supplied to the furnace and ignited. About 14 times as much
air as fuel is required for complete combustion. The air and fuel must be
intimately mixed and a small percentage of excess air is usually supplied
to ensure that all the fuel is burnt. When the air supply is insufficient the
fuel is not completely burnt and black exhaust gases will result.

Air supply

The flow of air through a boiler furnace is known as ‘draught’. Marine
boilers are arranged for forced draught, i.e. fans which force the air
through the furnace. Several arrangements of forced draught are
possible. The usual forced draught arrangement is a large fan which
supplies air along ducting to the furnace front. The furnace front has an
enclosed box arrangement, known as an ‘air register’, which can control
the air supply. The air ducting normally passes through the boiler
exhaust where some air heating can take place. The induced draught
arrangement has a fan in the exhaust uptake which draws the air
through the furnace. The balanced draught arrangement has matched
forced draught and induced draught fans which results in atmospheric
pressure in the furnace.

Fuel supply

Marine boilers currently burn residual low-grade fuels. This fuel is
stored in double-bottom tanks from which it is drawn by a transfer
pump up to settling tanks (Figure 4.15). Here any water in the fuel may
settle out and be drained away.

The oil from the settling tank is filtered and pumped to a heater and
then through a fine filter. Heating the oil reduces its viscosity and makes
it easier to pump and filter. This heating must be carefully controlled
otherwise ‘cracking’ or breakdown of the fuel may take place. A supply
of diesel fuel may be available to the burners for initial firing or
low-power operation of the boiler. From the fine filter the oil passes to
the burner where it is ‘atomised’, i.e. broken into tiny droplets, as it
enters the furnace. A recirculating line is provided to enable initial
heating of the oil.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 91 ---
92 Boilers

Recirculating line

Diesel oit tees
supply for Viscosity
cold start regulator

To other boiler &

To burners

Figure 4.15 Boiler fuel-oil supply system

Fuel burning

The high-pressure fuel is supplied to a burner which it leaves as an
atomised spray (Figure 4.16). The burner also rotates the fuel droplets
by the use of a swirl plate. A rotating cone of tiny oil droplets thus leaves
the burner and passes into the furnace. Various designs of burner exist,
the one just described being known as a ‘pressure jet burner’ (Figure
4.16(a)). The ‘rotating cup burner’ (Figure 4.14(b)) atomises and swirls
the fuel by throwing it off the edge of a rotating tapered cup. The ‘steam
blast jet burner’, shown in Figure 4.16(c), atomises and swirls the fuel by
spraying it into a high-velocity jet of steam. The steam is supplied down
a central inner barrel in the burner.

The air register is a collection of flaps, vanes, etc., which surrounds
each burner and is fitted between the boiler casings. The register
provides an entry section through which air is admitted from the
windbox. Air shut-off is achieved by means of a sliding sleeve or check.
Air flows through parallel to the burner, and a swirler provides it with a
rotating motion. The air is swirled in an opposite direction to the fuel to
ensure adequate mixing (Figure 4.17(a)). High-pressure, high-output
marine watertube boilers are roof fired (Figure 4.17(b)). This enables a
long flame path and even heat transfer throughout the furnace.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 92 ---
Boilers 93

(a) Pressure jet burner

{(b) Rotating cup burner

(c) Steam blast jet burner

Figure 4.16 Types of burner

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 93 ---
94 Boilers

Burner front plate

: Sliding sleeve or
Steam supply pipe

Figure 4.17(a) Air register for side-fired boiler

The fuel entering the furnace must be initially ignited in order to
burn.

Once ignited the lighter fuel elements burn first as a primary flame
and provide heat to burn the heavier elements in the secondary flame.
The primary and secondary air supplies feed their respective flames.
The process of combustion in a boiler furnace is often referred to as
‘suspended flame’ since the rate of supply of oil and air entering the
furnace is equal to that of the products of combustion leaving.

Purity of boiler feedwater

Modern high-pressure, high-temperature boilers with their large steam
output require very pure feedwater.

Most ‘pure’ water will contain some dissolved salts which come out of
solution on boiling. These salts then adhere to the heating surfaces as a
scale and reduce heat transfer, which can result in local overheating and
failure of the tubes. Other salts remain in solution and may produce
acids which will attack the metal of the boiler. An excess of alkaline salts
in a boiler, together with the effects of operating stresses, will produce a
condition known as ‘caustic cracking’. This is actual cracking of the metal
which may lead to serious failure.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 94 ---
Boilers 95

Air sleeve Electric igniter
operating
cylinder

Oil and steam
hand controls

Windbox

Furnace
roof

Burner tip

Figure 4.17(b) Air register for roof-fired boiler

The presence of dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide in boiler
feedwater can cause considerable corrosion of the boiler and feed
systems. When boiler water is contaminated by suspended matter, an
excess of salts or oil then ‘foaming’ may occur. This is a foam or froth
which collects on the water surface in the boiler drum. Foaming leads to
‘priming’ which is the carry-over of water with the steam leaving the
boiler drum. Any water present in the steam entering a turbine will do
considerable damage.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 95 ---
96 Boilers
Common impurities

Various amounts of different metal salts are to be found in water. These
include the chlorides, sulphates and bicarbonates of calcium, magne-
sium and, to some extent, sulphur. These dissolved salts in water make
up what is called the ‘hardness’ of the water. Calcium and magnesium
salts are the main causes of hardness.

The bicarbonates of calcium arid magnesium are decomposed by heat
and come out of solution as scale-forming carbonates. These alkaline
salts are known as ‘temporary hardness’. The chlorides, sulphates and
nitrates are not decomposed by boiling and are known as ‘permanent
hardness’. Total hardness is the sum of temporary and permanent
hardness and gives a measure of the scale-forming salts present in the
boiler feedwater.

Feedwater treatment

Feedwater treatment deals with the various scale and corrosion causing
salts and entrained gases by suitable chemical treatment. This is achieved
as follows:

1. By keeping the hardness salts in a suspension in the solution to
prevent scale formation.

2. By stopping any suspended salts and impurities from sticking to the
heat transfer surfaces.

3. By providing anti-foam protection to stop water carry-over.

4. By eliminating dissolved gases and providing some degree of
alkalinity which will prevent corrosion.

The actual treatment involves adding various chemicals into the
feedwater system and then testing samples of boiler water with a test kit.
The test kit is usually supplied by the treatment chemical manufacturer
with simple instructions for its use.

For auxiliary boilers the chemicals added might be lime (calcium
hydroxide) and soda (sodium carbonate). Alternatively caustic soda
(sodium hydroxide) may be used on its own.

For high-pressure watertube boilers various phosphate salts are used,
such as trisodium phosphate, disodium phosphate and sodium
metaphosphate. Coagulants are also used which combine the scale-
forming salts into a sludge and stop it sticking to the boiler surfaces.
Sodium aluminate, starch and tannin are used as coagulants. Final
de-aeration of the boiler water is achieved by chemicals, such as
hydrazine, which combine with any oxygen present.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 96 ---
Boilers 97
Boiler operation

The procedure adopted for raising steam will vary from boiler to boiler
and the manufacturers’ instructions should always be followed. A
number of aspects are common to all boilers and a general procedure
might be as follows.

Preparations

The uptakes should be checked to ensure a clear path for the exhaust
gases through the boiler; any dampers should be operated and then
correctly positioned. All vents, alarm, water and pressure gauge
connections should be opened. The superheater circulating valves or
drains should be opened to ensure a flow of steam through the
superheater. All the other boiler drains and blow-down valves should be
checked to ensure that they are closed. The boiler should then be filled
to slightly below the working level with hot de-aerated water. The
various header vents should be closed as water is seen to flow from them.
The economiser should be checked to ensure that it is full of water and
all air vented off.

The operation of the forced draught fan should be checked and
where exhaust gas air heaters are fitted they should be bypassed. The
fuel oil system should be checked for the correct positioning of valves,
etc. The fuel oil should then be circulated and heated.

Raising steam

The forced draught fan should be started and air passed through the
furnace for several minutes to ‘purge’ it of any exhaust gas or oil
vapours. The air slides (checks) at every register, except the ‘lighting up’
burner, should then be closed. The operating burner can now be lit and
adjusted to provide a low firing rate with good combustion. The fuel oil
pressure and forced draught pressure should be matched to ensure
good combustion with a full steady flame.

The superheater header vents may be closed once steam issues from
them. When a drum pressure of about 210kPa (2.1 bar) has been
reached the drum air vent may be closed. The boiler must be brought
slowly up to working pressure in order to ensure gradual expansion and
to avoid overheating the superheater elements and damaging any
refractory material. Boiler manufacturers usually provide a steam-
raising diagram in the form of a graph of drum pressure against hours
after flashing up.

The main and auxiliary steam lines should now be warmed through
and then the drains closed. In addition the water level gauges should be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 97 ---
98 Boilers

blown through and checked for correct reading. When the steam
pressure is about 300 kPa (3 bar) below the normal operating value the
safety valves should be lifted and released using the easing gear.

Once at operating pressure the boiler may be put on load and the
superheater circulating valves closed. All other vents, drains and
bypasses should then be closed. The water level in the boiler should be
carefully checked and the automatic water regulating arrangements
observed for correct operation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 98 ---
Chapter 5
Feed systems

The feed system completes the cycle between boiler and turbine to
enable the exhausted steam to return to the boiler as feedwater. The
feed system is made up of four basic items: the boiler, the turbine, the
condenser and the feed pump. The boiler produces steam which is
supplied to the turbine and finally exhausted as low-energy steam to the
condenser. The condenser condenses the steam to water (condensate)
which is then pumped into the boiler by the feed pump.

Other items are incorporated into all practical feed systems, such as a
drain tank to collect the condensate from the condenser and provide a
suction head for the feed pump. A make-up feed tank will provide
additional feedwater to supplement losses or store surplus feed from the
drain tank. In a system associated with an auxiliary boiler, as on a motor
ship, the drain tank or hotwell will be open to the atmosphere. Such a
feed system is therefore referred to as ‘open feed’. In high-pressure
watertube boiler installations no part of the feed system is open to the
atmosphere and it is known as ‘closed feed’.

Open feed system

An open feed system for an auxiliary boiler is shown in Figure 5.1. The
exhaust steam from the various services is condensed in the condenser.
The condenser is circulated by sea water and may operate at
atmospheric pressure or under a small amount of vacuum. The
condensate then drains under the action of gravity to the hotwell and
feed filter tank. Where the condenser is under an amount of vacuum,
extraction pumps will be used to transfer the condensate to the hotwell.
The hotwell will also receive drains from possibly contaminated systems,
e.g. fuel oil heating system, oil tank heating, etc. These may arrive from
a drains cooler or from an observation tank. An observation tank, where
fitted, permits inspection of the drains and their discharge to the oily
bilge if contaminated. The feed filter and hotwell tank is arranged with
internal baffles to bring about preliminary oil separation from any

99

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 99 ---
100 Feed systems

Auxiliary
feed
pump

Overflow

Figure 5.1 Open feed system

contaminated feed or drains. The feedwater is then passed through
charcoal or cloth filters to complete the cleaning process. Any overflow
from the hotwell passes to the feedwater tank which provides additional
feedwater to the system when required. The hotwell provides feedwater
to the main and auxiliary feed pump suctions. A feed heater may be
fitted into the main feed line. This heater may be of the surface type,
providing only heating, or may be of the direct contact type which will
de-aerate in addition. De-aeration is the removal of oxygen in feedwater
which can cause corrosion problems in the boiler. A feed regulator will
control the feedwater input to the boiler and maintain the correct water
level in the drum.

The system described above can only be said to be typical and
numerous variations will no doubt be found, depending upon particular
plant requirements.

Closed feed system

A closed feed system for a high pressure watertube boiler supplying a
main propulsion steam turbine is shown in Figure 5.2.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 100 ---
Feed systems 101

Economiser

Superheater

Deaerator

Atmospheric
drain
tank

Figure 5.2 Closed feed system

The steam turbine will exhaust into the condenser which will be at a
high vacuum. A regenerative type of condenser will be used which allows
condensing of the steam with the minimum drop in temperature. The
condensate is removed by an extraction pump and circulates through an
air ejector.

The condensate is heated in passing through the air ejector. The
ejector removes air from the condenser using steam-operated ejectors.
The condensate is now circulated through a gland steam condenser
where it is further heated. In this heat exchanger the turbine gland
steam is condensed and drains to the atmospheric drain tank. The
condensate is now passed through a low-pressure heater which is
supplied with bled steam from the turbine. All these various heat
exchangers improve the plant efficiency by recovering heat, and the
increased feedwater temperature assists in the de-aeration process.

The de-aerator is a direct contact feed heater, i.e. the feedwater and
the heating steam actually mix. In addition to heating, any dissolved
gases, particularly oxygen, are released from the feedwater. The lower
part of the de-aerator is a storage tank which supplies feedwater to the
main feed pumps, one of which will supply the boiler’s requirements.

The feedwater passes to a high-pressure feed heater and then to the
economiser and the boiler water drum. An atmospheric drain tank and a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 101 ---
102. Feed systems

feed tank are present in the system to store surplus feedwater and
supply it when required. The drain tank collects the many drains in the
system such as gland steam, air ejector steam, etc. A recirculating feed
line is provided for low load and manceuvring operation to ensure an
adequate flow of feedwater through the air ejector and gland steam
condenser. .

The system described is only typical and variations to meet particular
conditions will no doubt be found.

Auxiliary feed system

The arrangements for steam recovery from auxiliaries and ship services
may form separate open or closed feed sysems or be a part of the main
feed system.

Where, for instance, steam-driven deck auxiliaries are in use, a
separate auxiliary condenser operating at about atmospheric pressure
will condense the incoming steam (Figure 5.3). An extraction pump will
supply the condensate to an air ejector which will return the feedwater
to the main system at a point between the gland stearn condenser and the
drains cooler. A recirculating line is provided for low-load operation and
a level controller will maintain a condensate level in the condenser.

Where contamination of the feedwater may be a problem, a separate
feed system for a steam-to-steam generator can be used (Figure 5.4).
Low-pressure steam from the generator is supplied to the various
services, such as fuel oil heating, and the drains are returned to the
hotwell. Feed pumps supply the feed to a feed heater, which also acts as

Low pressure steam

Recirculating
line

Drain to main

Figure 5.4 Steam-to-steam generator feed
Figure 5.3 Auxiliary feed system system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 102 ---
Feed systems 108

a drains cooler for the heating steam supplied to the generator. From the
feed heater, the feedwater passes into the steam-to-steam generator.

Packaged feed systems are also available from a number of
manufacturers. With this arrangement the various system items are
mounted on a common base or bedplate. The complete feed system may
be packaged or a number of the items.

System components
Condenser

The condenser is a heat exchanger which removes the latent heat from
exhaust steam so that it condenses and can be pumped back into the
boiler. This condensing should be achieved with the minimum of
under-cooling, i.e. reduction of condensate temperature below the
steam temperature. A condenser is also arranged so that gases and
vapours from the condensing steam are removed.

An auxiliary condenser is shown in Figure 5.5. The circular
cross-section shell is provided with end covers which are arranged for a
two-pass flow of sea water. Sacrificial corrosion plates are provided in
the water boxes. The steam enters centrally at the top and divides into
two paths passing through ports in the casing below the steam inlet
hood. Sea water passing through the banks of tubes provides the cooling
surface for condensing the steam. The central diaphragm plate supports
the tubes and a number of stay rods in turn support the diaphragm
plate. The condensate is collected in a sump tank below the tube banks.
An air suction is provided on the condenser shell for the withdrawal of
gases and vapours released by the condensing steam.

Main condensers associated with steam turbine propulsion machinery
are of the regenerative type. In this arrangement some of the steam
bypasses the tubes and enters the condensate sump as steam. The
condensate is thus reheated to the same temperature as the steam, which
increases the efficiency of the condenser. One design of regenerative
condenser is shown in Figure 5.6. A central passage enables some of the
steam to pass to the sump, where it condenses and heats the condensate.
A baffle plate is arranged to direct the gases and vapours towards the air
ejector. The many tubes are fitted between the tube plates at each end
and tube support plates are arranged between. The tubes are circulated
in two passes by sea water.

Extraction pump

The extraction pump is used to draw water from a condenser which is
under vacuum. The pump also provides the pressure to deliver the feed
water to the de-aerator or feed pump inlet.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 103 ---
104 Feed systems

‘Soda cock
Dump steam inlet Scum vaive conn. Thermometer conn. Vac. gauge conn,

Steam intet hood

Condenser shell

P vo

mle ae

n
Fi

bation out valve conn.

Return condensate Condensate outiet Thermometer bolt conn.

Figure 5.5 Auxiliary condenser

Extraction pumps are usually of the vertical shaft, two stage,
centrifugal type, as described in Chapter 6. These pumps require a
specified minimum suction head to operate and, usually, some
condensate level control system in the condenser. The first-stage
impeller receives water which is almost boiling at the high vacuum
conditions present in the suction pipe. The water is then discharged at a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 104 ---
Feed systems 105

Condensate xtraction
level

pump suction

Figure 5.6 Regenerative condenser

slight positive pressure to the second-stage impeller which provides the
necessary system pressure at outlet.

Where the condenser sump level is allowed to vary or maintained
almost dry, a self-regulating extraction pump must be used. This
regulation takes the form of cavitation which occurs when the suction
head falls to a very low value. Cavitation is the formation and collapse of
vapour bubbles which results in a fall in the pump discharge rate to zero.
As the suction head improves the cavitation gradually ceases and the
pump begins to discharge again. Cavitation is usually associated with
damage (see Chapter 11 with reference to propellers) but at the
low-pressure conditions in the pump no damage occurs. Also, the
impeller may be designed so that the bubble collapse occurs away from
the impeller, i.e. super-cavitating.

Air ejector

The air ejector draws out the air and vapours which are released from
the condensing steam in the condenser. If the air were not removed
from the system it could cause corrosion problems in the boiler. Also, air
present in the condenser would affect the condensing process and cause
a back pressure in the condenser. The back pressure would increase the
exhaust steam pressure and reduce the thermal efficiency of the plant.

A two-stage twin-element air ejector is shown in Figure 5.7. In the first
stage a steam-operated air ejector acts as a pump to draw in the air and
vapours from the condenser. The mixture then passes into a condensing
unit which is circulated by feedwater. The feedwater is heated and the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 105 ---
106 Feed systems

2)
i

hah

aid a

Figure 5.7 Air ejector

steam and gases are mostly condensed. The condensed vapours and
steam are returned to the main condenser via a drain and the remaining
air and gases pass to the second stage where the process is repeated. Any
remaining air and gases are released to the atmosphere via a
vacuum-retaining valve. The feed water is circulated through U-tubes in
each of the two stages. A pair of ejectors are fitted to each stage,
although only one of each is required for satisfactory operation of the
unit.

Heat exchangers

The gland steam condenser, drains cooler and low-pressure feed heater
are all heat exchangers of the shell and tube type. Each is used in some
particular way to recover heat from exhaust steam by heating the
feedwater which is circulated through the units.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 106 ---
Feed systems 107

The gland steam condenser collects steam, vapour and air from the
turbine gland steam system. These returns are cooled by the circulating
feedwater and the steam is condensed. The condensate is returned to
the system via a loop seal or some form of steam trap and any air present
is discharged into the atmosphere. The feedwater passes through
U-tubes within the shell of the unit.

The drains cooler receives the exhaust drains from various auxiliary
services and condenses them: the condensate is returned to the feed
system. The circulating feedwater passes through straight tubes
arranged in tube plates in the drains cooler. Baffles or diaphragm plates
are fitted to support the tubes and also direct the flow of the exhaust
drains over the outside surface of the tubes (Figure 5.8).

Figure 5.8 Drains cooler

The low-pressure feed heater is supplied with steam usually bled from
the low-pressure turbine casing. The circulating feed is heated to assist
in the de-aeration process. The bleeding-off of steam from the turbine
improves plant thermal efficiency as well as reducing turbine blade
heights in the final rows because of the reduced mass of steam flowing.
Either straight or U-tube construction may be used with single or
multiple passes of feedwater.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 107 ---
108 Feed systems

De-aerator

The de-aerator completes the air and vapour removal process begun in
the condenser. It also functions as a feed heater, but in this case operates
by direct contact. The feedwater is heated almost to the point of boiling,
which releases all the dissolved gases which can then be vented off.
One type of de-aerator is shown in Figure 5.9. The incoming
feedwater passes through a number of spray valves or nozzles: the water

Figure 5.9 De-aerator

spray thus provides a large surface area for contact with the heating
system. Most of the feedwater will then fall onto the upper surface of the
de-aerating cone where it is further heated by the incoming steam. The
feedwater then enters the central passage and leaves through a narrow
opening which acts as an eductor or ejector to draw steam through with
the feed, The feedwater and condensed steam collect in the storage tank
which forms the base of the de-aerator. The heating steam enters the
de-aerator and circulates throughout, heating the feedwater and being
condensed in its turn to combine with the feedwater. The released
gases leave through a vent connection and pass to a vent condenser or
devaporiser. Any water vapour will be condensed and returned. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 108 ---
Feed systems 109

devaporiser is circulated by the feedwater before it enters the
de-aerator.

The de-aerator feedwater is very close to the steam temperature at the
same pressure and will, if subjected to any pressure drop, ‘flash-off into
steam. This can result in ‘gassing’, i.e. vapour forming in the feed pump
suction. To avoid this problem, the de-aerator is mounted high up in the
machinery space to give a positive suction head to the feed pumps.
Alternatively a booster or extraction pump may be fitted at the
de-aerator outlet.

Feed pump

The feed pump raises the feedwater to a pressure high enough for it to
enter the boiler.

For auxiliary boilers, where small amounts of feedwater are pumped,
a steam-driven reciprocating positive displacement pump may be used.
This type of pump is described in Chapter 6. Another type of feed
pump often used on package boiler installations is known as an ‘electro

Figure 5.10 Turbo-feed pump

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 109 ---
110 Feed systems

feeder’. This is a multi-stage centrifugal pump driven by a constant-
speed electric motor. The number of stages is determined by the feed
quantity and discharge pressure.

Steam turbine-driven feed pumps are usual with high-pressure
watertube boiler installations. A typical turbo-feed pump is shown in
Figure 5.10. The two-stage horizontal centrifugal pump is driven by an
impulse turbine, the complete assembly being fitted into a common
casing. The turbine is supplied with steam directly from the boiler and
exhausts into a back-pressure line which can be used for feed heating.
The pump bearings are lubricated by filtered water which is tapped off
from the first-stage impeller. The feed discharge pressure is maintained
by a governor, and overspeed protection trips are also provided.

High-pressure feed heater

The high-pressure feed heater is a heat exchanger of the shell and tube
type which further heats the feedwater before entry to the boiler.
Further heat may be added to the feedwater without its becoming steam
since its pressure has now been raised by the feed pump.

The incoming feedwater circulates through U-tubes with the heating
steam passing over the outside of the tubes. Diaphragm plates serve to
support the tubes and direct the steam through the heater. A steam trap
ensures that all the heating steam is condensed before it leaves the
heater. Bled steam from the turbine will be used for heating.

Operation and maintenance

During operation the feed system must maintain a balance between feed
input and steam output, together with a normal water level in the boiler.
The control system used is described in Chapter 15.

The condenser sea water boxes are protected by sacrificial mild steel
plates which must be renewed regularly. The tube plates should be
examined at the same time to ensure no erosion has taken place as a
result of too high a circulating water speed. Any leaking tubes will cause
feedwater contamination, and where this is suspected the condenser
must be tested. The procedure is mentioned in Chapter 7.

Extraction pumps should be checked regularly to ensure that the
sealing arrangements are preventing air from entering the system. It is
usual with most types of glands to permit a slight leakage of water to
ensure lubrication of the shaft and the gland.

Air ejectors will operate inefficiently if the ejector nozzles are coated
or eroded. They should be inspected and cleaned or replaced regularly.
The vacuum retaining valve should be checked for air tightness and also
the ejector casing.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 110 ---
Feed systems 111

The various heat exchangers should be checked regularly for tube
leakages and also the cleanliness of the heat-exchange surfaces.

The operation of the reciprocating positive displacement pump is
described in Chapter 6. Turbo-feed pumps are started with the
discharge valve closed in order to build up pressure rapidly and bring
the hydraulic balance into operation. The turbine driving the pump will
require warming through with the drains open before running up to
speed and then closing the drains. The turbine overspeed trip should be
checked regularly for correct operation and axial clearances should be
measured, usually with a special gauge.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 111 ---
—_____ Chapter 6 __-__
Pumps and pumping systems

At any one time in a ship’s machinery space there will be a considerable
variety of liquids on the move. The lengths of pipework will cover many
kilometres, the systems are often interconnecting and most pumps are in
pairs. The engineer must be familiar with each system from one end to
the other, knowing the location and use of every single valve. The
various systems perform functions such as cooling, heating, cleaning and
lubricating of the various items of machinery. Each system can be
considered comprised of pumps, piping, valves and fittings, which will now
be examined in turn.

Pumps

A pump is a machine used to raise liquids from a low point to a high
point. Alternatively it may simply provide the liquid with an increase in
energy enabling it to flow or build up a pressure. The pumping action
can be achieved in various ways according to the type of pump
employed. The arrangement of pipework, the liquid to be pumped and
its purpose will result in certain system requirements or characteristics
that must be met by the pump.

A pumping system on a ship will consist of suction piping, a pump and
discharge piping (Figure 6.1). The system is arranged to provide a
positive pressure or head at some point and discharge the liquid. The
pump provides the energy to develop the head and overcome any losses
in the system. Losses are mainly due to friction within the pipes and the
difference between the initial and final liquid levels. The total system
losses, H-rorat, are found as follows:

Hrorar = Hrrsucr + Hrrpis + Hpistank + Hsucrrank

where Hersucr = friction head loss in suction piping
Herpis = friction head loss in discharge piping
Hpisrank = height of discharge tank level above pump

112

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 112 ---
Pumps and pumping systems 113.

Suction
tank

Suction
tank

Figure 6.1 Basic pumping system

Hsucrranx= height of suction tank level above pump
(negative when tank level is below pump suction)

All values are in metres of liquid.

The system head loss—flow characteristic can be drawn as shown in
Figure 6.2. The system flow rate or capacity will be known and the pump
manufacturer will provide a head—flow characteristic for his equipment
which must be matched to the system curve. To obtain the best operating
conditions for the pump it should operate over its range of maximum
efficiency. A typical centrifugal pump characteristic is shown in Figure
6.2.

An important consideration, particularly when drawing liquids from
below the pump, is the suction-side conditions of the system. The
determination of Net Positive Suction Head (NPSH) is undertaken for
both the system and the pump. Net Positive Suction Head is the difference
between the absolute pump inlet pressure and the vapour pressure of
the liquid, and is expressed in metres of liquid. Vapour pressure is
temperature dependent and therefore NPSH should be given for the
operating temperature of the liquid. The NPSH available in the system
is found as follows:

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 113 ---
114 Pumps and pumping systems

Pump characteristic

Head (m)

NPSH required

NPS H available

Flow (m3/n)

Figure 6.2 Overall pump system characteristics

NPSHavau. = Harm + Hsucrrank — Hersucr ~ Hvaprress
lila aches ieee
absolute pump inlet pressure

where Harm = atmospheric pressure
Hsucrranx= tank level from pump (negative when tank level
is below pump)
Hersucr = friction head loss in suction piping
Hvappress = liquid vapour pressure

The above values are usually expressed in metres head of sea water.
The pump manufacturer provides a NPSH required characteristic for
the pump which is also in metres head of sea water (Figure 6.2). The
pump and system must be matched in terms of NPSH such that NPSH
required is always greater than NPSH available. An insufficient value of
NPSH required will result in cavitation, i.e. the forming and collapsing
of bubbles in the liquid, which will affect the pumping operation and
may damage the pump.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 114 ---
Pumps and pumping systems 115

Pump types

There are three main classes of pump in marine use: displacement, axial
flow and centrifugal. A number of different arrangements are possible
for displacement and centrifugal pumps to meet particular system
characteristics.

Displacement

The displacement pumping action is achieved by the reduction or
increase in volume of a space causing the liquid (or gas) to be physically
moved. The method employed is either a piston in a cylinder using a
reciprocating motion, or a rotating unit using vanes, gears or screws.
A reciprocating displacement pump is shown diagrammatically in
Figure 6.3, to demonstrate the operating principle. The pump is

Piston
moving

Air vessel

Liquid
discharge

suction Suction Discharge
valve open valve
closed

Figure 6.3 Diagrammatic reciprocating displacement pump

double-acting, that is liquid is admitted to either side of the piston where
it is alternately drawn in and discharged. As the piston moves upwards,
suction takes place below the piston and liquid is drawn in, the valve
arrangement ensuring that the discharge valve cannot open on the
suction stroke. Above the piston, liquid is discharged and the suction
valve remains closed. As the piston travels down, the operations of
suction and discharge occur now on opposite sides.

An air vessel is usually fitted in the discharge pipework to dampen out
the pressure variations during discharge. As the discharge pressure rises

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 115 ---
116 Pumps and pumping systems

the air is compressed in the vessel, and as the pressure falls the air
expands. The peak pressure energy is thus ‘stored’ in the air and
returned to the system when the pressure falls. Air vessels are not fitted
on reciprocating boiler feed pumps since they may introduce air into the
de-aerated feedwater.

A relief valve is always fitted between the pump suction and discharge
chambers to protect the pump should it be operated with a valve closed
in the discharge line.

Reciprocating displacement pumps are self priming, will accept high
suction lifts, produce the discharge pressure required by the system and
can handle large amounts of vapour or entrained gases. They are,
however, complicated in construction with a number of moving parts
requiring attention and maintenance.

When starting the pump the suction and discharge valves. must be
opened. It is important that no valves in the discharge line are closed,
otherwise either the relief valve will lift or damage may occur to the
pump when it is started. The pump is self priming, but where possible to
reduce wear or the risk of seizure it should be flooded with liquid before
starting. An electrically driven pump needs only to be switched on, when
it will run erratically for a short period until liquid is drawn into the
pump. A steam driven pump will require the usual draining and
warming-through procedure before steam is gradually admitted.

Most of the moving parts in the pump will require examination during
overhaul. The pump piston, rings and cylinder liner must also be
thoroughly checked. Ridges will eventually develop at the limits of the
piston ring travel and these must be removed. The suction and
discharge valves must be refaced or ground in as required.

Two different rotary displacement pumps are shown in Figure 6.4.
The action in each case results in the trapping of a quantity of liquid (or
air) in a volume or space which becomes smaller at the discharge or
outlet side. It should be noted that the liquid does not pass between the
screw or gear teeth as they mesh but travels between the casing and the
teeth.

The starting procedure is similar to that for the reciprocating
displacement pump. Again a relief valve will be fitted between suction
and discharge chambers. The particular maintenance problem with this
type of pump is the shaft sealing where the gland and packing
arrangement must be appropriate for the material. pumped. The
rotating vane type will suffer wear at a rate depending upon the liquid
pumped and its freedom from abrasive or corrosive substances. The
screw pump must be correctly timed and if stripped for inspection care
should be taken to assemble the screws correctly.

A special type of rotary displacement pump has a_ particular
application in steering gear and is described in Chapter 12.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 116 ---
Pumps and pumping systems 117

INLET OUTLET

G at | LL)
CRI Lorna a

ct
WY

up

Figure 6.4 Rotary displacement pumps: (a) rotary vane displacement pump, (b) screw
displacement pump

Axial-flow pump

An axial-flow pump uses a screw propeller to axially accelerate the
liquid. The outlet passages and guide vanes are arranged to convert the
velocity increase of the liquid into a pressure.

A reversible axial flow pump is shown in Figure 6.5. The pump casing
is split either horizontally or vertically to provide access to the propeller.
A mechanical seal prevents leakage where the shaft leaves the casing. A
thrust bearing of the tilting pad type is fitted on the drive shaft. The
prime mover may be an electric motor or a steam turbine.

‘The axial flow pump is used where large quantities of water at a low
head are required, for example in condenser circulating. The efficiency

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 117 ---
Gland
Pump shaft

Bearing housing

Figure 6.5 Axial-flow pump

Sli

suiaisds Suiduind pue sduing

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 118 ---
Pumps and pumping systems 119

is equivalent to a low lift centrifugal pump and the higher speeds
possible enable a smaller driving motor to be used. The axial-flow pump
is also suitable for supplementary use in a condenser scoop circulating
system since the pump will offer little resistance to flow when idling.
With scoop circulation the normal movement of the ship will draw in
water; the pump would be in use only when the ship was moving slowly
or stopped.

Centrifugal pump

In a centrifugal pump liquid enters the centre or eye of the impeller and
flows radially out between the vanes, its velocity being increased by the
impeller rotation. A diffuser or volute is then used to convert most of the
kinetic energy in the liquid into pressure. The arrangement is shown
diagrammatically in Figure 6.6.

A vertical, single stage, single entry, centrifugal pump for general
marine duties is shown in Figure 6.7. The main frame and casing,
together with a motor support bracket, house the pumping element
assembly. The pumping element is made up of a top cover, a pump
shaft, an impeller, a bearing bush and a sealing arrangement around the
shaft. The sealing arrangement may be a packed gland or a mechanical
seal and the bearing lubrication system will vary according to the type of
seal. Replaceable wear rings are fitted to the impeller and the casing.
The motor support bracket has two large apertures to provide access to
the pumping element, and a coupling spacer is fitted between the motor
and pump shaft to enable the removal of the pumping element without
disturbing the motor.

Pump discharge

Discharge Casin
Volute nozzle 3

Impelier ,
Pump discharge in Diffuser

Casing
Impeller
shaft Increasing
velocity
—_
Pump

Impeller
rotation

Energy
conversion

kinetic to Impeller Vane
pressure
Volute type Diffuser type

Figure 6.6 Centrifugal pump operation

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 119 ---
120 Pumps and pumping systems

Figure 6.7 Single-entry centrifugal pump

Other configurations of centrifugal pumps are used for particular
duties or to meet system requirements. A vertical single stage double-
entry centrifugal pump is shown in Figure 6.8. The incoming liquid
enters the double impeller from the top and the bottom and passes into
the volute casing for discharge. A double-entry pump has a lower NPSH
required characteristic which will have advantages in poor suction
conditions. It should be noted that different impeller sizes can be fitted
into a basic pumping element. This enables various discharge head
characteristics to be provided for the same basic pump frame.

A vertical multi-stage single-entry centrifugal pump used for
deep-well cargo pumping is shown in Figure 6.9. This can be
considered as a series of centrifugal pumps arranged to supply one
another in series and thus progressively increase the discharge pressure.
The pump drive is located outside the tank and can be electric, hydraulic
or any appropriate means suitable for the location.

A diffuser is fitted to high-pressure centrifugal pumps. This is a ring
fixed to the casing, around the impeller, in which there are passages

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 120 ---
Pumps and pumping systems — 12

Pumping element
removal gear
Coupling spacer. Top cover

Shaft coupling

Soft packed gland

Impetier
wear ring

Figure 6.8 Doubie-entry centrifugal pump

formed by vanes. The passages widen out in the direction of liquid flow
and act to convert the kinetic energy of the liquid into pressure energy.

Hydraulic balance arrangements are also usual. Some of the
high-pressure discharge liquid is directed against a drum or piston
arrangement to balance the discharge liquid pressure on the impeller
and thus maintain it in an equilibrium position.

Centrifugal pumps, while being suitable for most general marine
duties, are not self priming and require some means of removing air
from the suction pipeline and filling it with liquid. Where the liquid to be
pumped is at a level higher than the pump, opening an air cock near the
pump suction will enable the air to be forced out as the pipeline fills up
under the action of gravity. If the pump is below sea water level, and sea
water priming is permissible in the system, then opening a sea water
injection valve and the air cock on the pump will effect priming.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 121 ---
122. Pumps and pumping systems

Suction

Note only two stages are shown Figure 6.9 Multi-stage centrifugal pump

Alternatively an air pumping unit can be provided to individual pumps
or as a central priming system connected to several pumps.

The water ring or liquid ring primer can be arranged as an individual
unit mounted on the pump and driven by it, or as a motor driven unit
mounted separately and serving several pumps. The primer consists of an
elliptical casing in which a vaned rotor revolves. The rotor may be
separate from the hub and provide the air inlet and discharge ports as
shown in Figure 6.10. Alternatively another design has the rotor and
hub as one piece with ports on the cover. The rotor vanes revolve and
force a ring of liquid to take up the elliptical shape of the casing. The
water ring, being elliptical, advances and recedes from the central hub,
causing a pumping action to occur. The suction piping system is
connected to the air inlet ports and the suction line is thus primed by the
removal of air. The air removed from the system is discharged to
atmosphere. A reservoir of water is provided to replenish the water ring
when necessary.

When starting a centrifugal pump the suction valve is opened and the
discharge valve left shut: then the motor is started and the priming unit
will prime the suction line. Once the pump is primed the delivery valve

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 122 ---
Pumps and pumping systems 123

Figure 6.10 Water-ring primer

can be slowly opened and the quantity of liquid can be regulated by
opening or closing the delivery valve. When stopping the pump the
delivery valve is closed and the motor stopped.

Regular maintenance on the machine will involve attention to
lubrication of the shaft bearing and ensuring that the shaft seal or gland
is not leaking liquid. Unsatisfactory operation or loss of performance
may require minor or major overhauls. Common faults, such as no
discharge, may be a result of valves in the system being shut, suction
strainers blocked or other faults occurring in the priming system. Air
leaks in the suction piping, a choked impeller or too tight a shaft gland
can all lead to poor performance.

When dismantling the pump to remove the pumping element any
priming pipes or cooling water supply pipes must be disconnected.
Modern pumps have a coupling spacer which can be removed to enable
the pumping element to be withdrawn without disturbing the motor: the
impeller and shaft can then be readily separated for examination. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 123 ---
124 Pumps and pumping systems

shaft bearing bush together with the casing and impeller wear rings
should be examined for wear.

Ejectors

An ejector is a form of pump which has no moving parts. An ejector
arrangement is shown in Figure 5.7, Chapter 5. A high-pressure liquid
or a vapour such as steam discharges from a nozzle as a high-velocity jet
and entrains any gases or liquids surrounding the nozzle. The mixture
enters a converging—diverging diffuser tube where some of the kinetic
energy is converted into pressure energy. Ejectors can be arranged as
single or multi-stage units and have particular applications, for example
the air ejector in a closed feed system (see Chapter 5).

Piping systems

A ship’s machinery space contains hundreds of metres of piping and
fittings. The various systems are arranged to carry many different
liquids at various temperatures and pressures. The influences of
operational and safety requirements, as well as legislation, result in
somewhat complicated arrangements of what are a few basic fittings.
Valves, strainers, branch pipes, etc., are examples of fittings which are
found in a pipe system.

Pipes
Machinery space pipework is made up of assorted straight lengths and
bends joined by flanges with an appropriate gasket or joint between, or
very small-bore piping may use compression couplings. The piping
material will be chosen to suit the liquid carried and the system
conditions. Some examples are given in Table 6.1.

Where piping is to be galvanised, the completed pipe with all joints
fully welded is to be hot dipped galvanised. The pipes are supported

Table 6.1 Pipework material

System Material

Waste steam Carbon steel to BS 3601

SW circulating Aluminium brass

Wash deck and firemain Carbon steel to BS 3601 — galvanised
Bilge and ballast Carbon steel to BS 3601 — galvanised
Control air Copper

Starting air Carbon steel to BS 3602


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 124 ---
Pumps and pumping systems — 125

and held in by hangers or pipe clips in such a way as to minimise
vibration. Steam pipes or pipes in systems with considerable tempera-
ture variation may be supported on spring hangers which permit a
degree of movement. An alternative to spring hangers is the use of
expansion loops of piping or an expansion joint.

Valves

Valves are provided in a piping system to regulate or stop the liquid
flow. Various types exist with their associated particular function or
advantages.

Cock

A cock is used in small-bore pipework and is joined to adjacent pipework
by a compression coupling. A cock can restrict or close an internal
passage by moving a central plug, usually by an external lever. An
example of a straight-through cock is given in Figure 6.11.

Figure 6.11 Cock

Globe valve

A globe valve has a somewhat spherical body enclosing the valve seat and
valve disc (Figure 6.12). Flanges are provided at either side for
connecting to adjacent pipework, and internal passages guide the liquid
flow through the valve seat. Liquid flow is always arranged to come from
below the valve seat so that the upper chamber is not pressurised when
the valve is closed. A screw lift valve arrangement is shown where the
spindle is joined to the valve disc. A gland with appropriate packing
surrounds the spindle where it leaves the valve bonnet. The upper part
of the spindle is threaded and passes through a similarly threaded
bridge piece. A circular handwheel is used to turn the spindle and raise
or lower the valve disc. The valve disc and seat are a perfect match and
may be flat or, more commonly, mitred. The material for both is often
provided with a very hard stellite coating. Globe valves also exist in a
right-angled form where the inlet and exit flanges are at 90° to each
other.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 125 ---
126 Pumps and pumping systems

Figure 6.12 Globe valve

1am
SAQAQS= Cover
ST Se

Figure 6.13 Non-return valve

Non-return or check valves are arranged in various pipelines to
prevent reverse flow. Where the valve disc is not attached to the spindle
it is known as screw-down non-return (SDNR). The valve disc in such a
valve must have some form of guide or wings to ensure it can reseat
correctly when screwed closed. Non-return valves are sometimes
arranged without spindles, in which case they are liquid operated and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 126 ---
Pumps and pumping systems — 127

can not be manually closed (Figure 6.13). A free lifting valve may be
used or a hinged flap.

Gate valve

A gate valve should be fully open or closed; it is not suitable for flow
control. When open it provides a clear full-bore internal passage for the
liquid since the valve or gate is raised clear (Figure 6.14). The spindle is

Valve cover

Figure 6.14 Gate valve

threaded over its lower portion and when turned causes the gate to raise
or lower. The gate may be parallel or wedge-shaped in section fitting
against a matching seat. Larger valves have replaceable seat rings and
gate facings.

Relief valves

Excess pressure is avoided in pipe systems by the use of relief valves. The
valve disc is held closed by a spring arrangement on the stem (Figure
6.15). The spring compression can be adjusted to enable the valve to
open at the appropriate pressure. Boiler safety valves are a special case
of relief valve and are described in Chapter 4.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 127 ---
128 Pumps and pumping systems

Dome cover

Adjusting screw

Figure 6.15 Relief valve

Quick-closing valves

Oil tank suction valves are arranged for rapid closing from a remote
point by the use of quick-closing valves. The collapsing of the ‘bridge’
results in the valve closing quickly under the combined effects of gravity
and an internal spring. A manually operated wire or a hydraulic cylinder
can be used to collapse the bridge.

Valve chests

Valve chests are a series of valves all built into a single block or manifold.
Various arrangements of suction and discharge connections are possible
with this assembly.

Other fittings

Mud boxes are fitted into the machinery space bilge suction piping. The
mud box is a coarse strainer with a straight tailpipe down to the bilge
(Figure 6.16). To enable the internal perforated plate to be cleaned
when necessary, the lid of the mud box is easily removed without
disconnecting any pipework.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 128 ---
Pumps and pumping systems — 129

Figure 6.16 Mud box

Suction pipes in tanks should be arranged with a bell mouth or foot.
The bell end or foot should provide an inlet area of about
one-and-a-half times the pipe area. It should also be a sufficient distance
from the bottom plating and nearby structure to provide a free suction
area, again about one-and-a-half times the pipe area.

A steam trap does as its name implies and permits only the passage
of condensed steam. It operates automatically and is situated in steam
drain lines. Various designs are available utilising mechanical floats
which, when floating in condensate, will enable the condensate to
discharge (Figure 6.17). Other designs employ various types of
thermostat to operate the valve which discharges the condensate.

An expansion piece is fitted in a pipeline which is subject to
considerable temperature variations. One type consists of a bellows
arrangement which will permit movement in several directions and

Ball float and lever

Figure 6.17 Steam trap

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 129 ---
130 Pumps and pumping systems

Figure 6.18 Expansion bellows piece

absorb vibration (Figure 6.18). The fitting must be selected according to
the variation in system temperatures and installed to permit the
expansion and contraction required in the system.

Drains are provided in pipelines and usually have small cocks to open
or close them. It is essential that certain pipelines are drained regularly,
particularly in steam systems. When steam is admitted to a pipeline
containing a reasonable surface of water it will condense and a partial
vacuum occur: the water will then be drawn along the pipe until it meets
a bend or a closed valve. The impact of the moving water in the
pipework will create large forces known as ‘water hammer’, which can
result in damage to pipework and fittings.

Bilge and ballast systems

The bilge system and the ballast system each have particular functions to
perform, but are in many ways interconnected.

Bilge system

The bilge main is arranged to drain any watertight compartment other
than ballast, oil or water tanks and to discharge the contents overboard.
The number of pumps and their capacity depend upon the size, type
and service of the vessel. All bilge suctions must be fitted with suitable
strainers, which in the machinery space would be mud boxes positioned
at floorplate level for easy access. A vertical drop pipe would lead down
to the bilge.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 130 ---
Pumps and pumping systems 131

The emergency bilge suction or bilge injection valve is used to prevent
flooding of the ship. It is a direct suction from the machinery space bilge
which is connected to the largest capacity pump or pumps. An
emergency bilge pump is required for passenger ships but may also be
fitted as an extra on cargo ships. It must be a completely independent
unit capable of operating even if submerged. A centrifugal pump with a
priming device is usually used, driven by an electric motor housed in an
air bell. The power supply is arranged from the emergency generator.

A typical system is shown in Figure 6.19. The various pumps and lines
are interconnected to some extent so that each pump can act as an
alternative or standby for another.

Ballast systems

The ballast system is arranged to ensure that water can be drawn from
any tank or the sea and discharged to any other tank or the sea as
required to trim the vessel. Combined or separate mains for suction and
discharge may be provided. Where a tank or cargo space can be used for
ballast or dry cargo then either a ballast or bilge connection will be
required. The system must therefore be arranged so that only the
appropriate pipeline is in service; the other must be securely blanked or

Oily High Low
Overboard overboard H ‘on Overboard
dicharge | ME blah suction suction Gieharge

‘Suction or discharge
fore peak and double
bottom tanks
Forward port
bilge well

Firemain

washdeck
Aft port fine
bilge welt From port
hold bilges

From tunnel
well

From aft
peak tank

3a) From starboard
hold bilges

Aft starboard

bilge well Forward starboard

bilge well

Suction or discharge
Overboard bow double bottom tanks

discharge

Overboard
discharge wien

suction

Figure 6.19 Bilge and ballast systems

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 131 ---
132. Pumps and pumping systems

Shut off valve Air filter

Figure 6.20 Domestic water systems

Pneupress
or header
tank

From |

freshwater
tanks J
Cy aio = Freshwater
Control *
orifice services
Domestic —
water pump
ed
rd
—
Drain |
— a
Hypochlorinator Carbon Freshwater

De-chlorinator drain

Figure 6.21 Domestic water treatment

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 132 ---
Pumps and pumping systems — 133

closed off. Where tanks are arranged for either oil or ballast a
change-over chest must be fitted in the pipeline so that only the ballast
main or the oil transfer main is connected to the tank.

Domestic water systems

Domestic water systems usually comprise a fresh water system for
washing and drinking and a salt water system for sanitary purposes
(Figure 6.20). Both use a basically similar arrangement of an automatic
pump supplying the liquid to a tank which is pressurised by compressed
air, The compressed air provides the head or pressure to supply the
water when required. The pump is started automatically by a pressure
switch which operates as the water level falls to a predetermined level.
The fresh water system has, in addition, a calorifier or heater which is
heated, usually with steam.

Fresh water supplied for drinking and culinary purposes must meet
purity stndards specified by the Department of Transport. Water
produced from most evaporator/distillers will not meet these standards
and must be treated to ensure it is biologically pure and neutral or
slightly alkaline.

A treatment plant suitable for a general cargo ship is shown in Figure
6.21. The water is sterilised by an excess dose of chlorine provided as
hypochlorite tablets. It is then dechlorinated in a bed of activated
carbon to remove the excess chlorine. Any colour, taste and odour which
was present in the water will also be removed by the carbon. Excess
chlorine is originally applied to ensure that complete sterilisation
occurs.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 133 ---
Chapter 7
Auxiliaries

Machinery, other than the main propulsion unit, is usually called
‘auxiliary’ even though without some auxiliaries the main machinery
would not operate for long. The items considered are air compressors, heat
exchangers, distillation equipment, oil/water separators, sewage treatment plants
and incinerators.

Air compressor

Compressed air has many uses on board ship, ranging from diesel
engine starting to the cleaning of machinery during maintenance. The
air pressures of 25 bar or more are usually provided in multi-stage
machines. Here the air is compressed in the first stage, cooled and
compressed to a higher pressure in the next stage, and so on. The
two-stage crank machine is probably the most common, and one type is
shown in Figure 7.1.

Air is drawn in on the suction stroke through the first-stage suction
valve via the silencer/filter. The suction valve closes on the piston
upstroke and the air is compressed. The compressed air, having reached
its first-stage pressure, passes through the delivery valve to the
first-stage cooler. The second-stage suction and compression now take
place in a similar manner, achieving a much higher pressure in the
smaller, second-stage cylinder. After passing through the second-stage
delivery valve, the air is again cooled and delivered to the storage system.

The machine has a rigid crankcase which provides support for the
three crankshaft bearings. The cylinder block is located above and
replaceable liners are fitted in the cylinder block. The running gear
consists of pistons, connecting rods and the one-piece, two-throw
crankshaft. The first-stage cylinder head is located on the cylinder block
and the second-stage cylinder head is mounted on the first: each of the
heads carries its suction and delivery valves. A chain-driven rotary-gear
pump provides lubricating oil to the main bearings and through

134

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 134 ---
Auxiliaries 135

First

Second stage
piston assembly

Hand drain valve

Oil pump

Figure 7.1 Two-stage air compressor

internally drilled passages in the crankshaft to both connecting rod
bearings. Cooling water is supplied either from an integral pump or the
machinery space system. The water passes into the cylinder block which
contains both stage coolers and then into the first and second stage
cylinder heads. A water jacket safety valve (Figure 7.2) prevents a
build-up of pressure should a cooler tube burst and compressed air
escape. Relief valves are fitted to the first and second-stage air outlets
and are designed to lift at 10% excess pressure. A fusible plug is fitted
after the second-stage cooler to limit delivered air temperature and thus
protect the compressed-air reservoirs and pipework.

Cooler drain valves are fitted to compressors. When these are open
the machine is ‘unloaded’ and does not produce compressed air. A
compressor when started must always be in the unloaded condition. This

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 135 ---
136 Auxiliaries

Cranked spindle

Figure 7.2 Water jacket safety valve

reduces the starting torque for the machine and clears out any
accumulated moisture in the system. This moisture can affect lubrication
and may produce oil/water emulsions which line the air pipelines and
could lead to fires or explosions.

The compressor motor is started and the machine run up to speed.
The lubricating oil pressure should be observed to build up to the
correct value. The first-stage drains and then the second-stage drains
are closed and the machine will begin to operate. The pressure gauge
cocks should be adjusted to give a steady reading. Where manual drains
are fitted they should be slightly opened to discharge any moisture
which may collect in the coolers. The cooling water supply should be
checked, and also operating temperatures, after a period of running
loaded.

To stop the compressor, the first and second-stage cooler drain valves
should be opened and the machine run unloaded for two to three
minutes. This unloaded running will clear the coolers of condensate.
The compressor can now be stopped and the drains should be left open.
The cooling water should be isolated if the machine is to be stopped for a
long period.

Automatic compressor operation is quite usual and involves certain
additional equipment. An unloader must be fitted to ensure the machine
starts unloaded, and once running at speed will ‘load’ and begin to
produce compressed air. Various methods of unloading can be used but
marine designs favour either depressors which hold the suction valve
plates on their seats or a bypass which discharges to suction. Automatic
drains must also be fitted to ensure the removal of moisture from the
stage coolers. A non-return valve is usually fitted as close as possible to
the discharge valve on a compressor to prevent return air flow: it is an
essential fitting where unloaders are used.

The compressed air system for the supply of starting air to a diesel
engine is described in Chapter 2. Control or instrument air supplies
have particular requirements with regard to being moisture and oil free

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 136 ---
Auxiliaries 137

and without impurities. A special type of oil-free compressor may be
used to supply control air or it may be treated after delivery from an
ordinary air compressor. This treatment results in the air being filtered
and dried in order to remove virtually all traces of oil, moisture and any
atmospheric impurities.

Maintenance involves the usual checks and overhauls common to
reciprocating machinery, e.g. crankcase oil level, cooling water system,
operating temperatures and pressures, etc. The suction and delivery air
valves for each stage will present the most work in any maintenance
schedule. These valves are automatic, requiring a small pressure
differential to operate.

The constant rapid opening and closing action of the valves may
require the seats to be refaced. Overheating, use of incorrect lubricating
oil, or the presence of dirt may result in sticking or pitting of the
surfaces. The various buffer plates, spring plates, valve plate and seat
which make up a suction or delivery valve can be seen in Figure 7.3. The
valves should be stripped and all parts carefully cleaned and examined,
any worn parts replaced and the valve seat and plate lightly lapped
separately on a flat surface before reassembly to ensure a good seal.

Slit pin
Castle nut (or alternative

=) Coy Nut wasner

self-locking nut)

Figure 7.3 Automatic valve

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 137 ---
138 — Auxiliaries
Heat exchangers

Heat exchangers on board ship are mainly coolers where a hot liquid is
cooled by sea water. There are some instances where liquid heating is
required, such as heavy fuel oil heaters and sea water heaters for tank
cleaning. Although being heat exchangers, the main condenser for a
steam ship and the evaporator/distiller are dealt with separately (see
Chapter 5).

The heat exchange process is accomplished by having the two liquids
pass on either side of a conducting surface. The heat from the hot liquid
passes to the cold liquid and the conducting surface, i.e. the tube wall, is
at a temperature between the two. It is usual for marine heat exchangers
to have the two liquids flowing in opposite directions, i.e. counter or
contra flow. This arrangement provides a fairly constant temperature
difference between the two liquids and therefore the maximum heat
transfer for the available surface area.

Coolers

Coolers at sea fall into two groups, shell and tube and the plate type. Both
are considered below.

Shell and tube

In the shell and tube design a tube bundle or stack is fitted into a shell
(Figure 7.4). The end plates are sealed at either end of the shell and

ing

Safety expansion ri
and double joint

Radial flow circular
Visible joint les

cleaning and inspection

Removable straight
tube

Figure 7.4 Shell and tube heat exchanger

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 138 ---
Auxiliaries 139

provision is made at one end for expansion. The tubes are sealed into
the tube plate at either end and provide a passageway for the cooling
liquid. Headers or water boxes surround the tube plates and enclose the
shell. They are arranged for either a single pass or, as in Figure 7.4, for a
double pass of cooling liquid. The tube bundle has baffles fitted which
serve to direct the liquid to be cooled up and down over the tubes as it
passes along the cooler. The joint arrangements at the tube plate ends
are different. At the fixed end, gaskets are fitted between either side of
the tube plate and the shell and end cover. At the other end, the tube
plate is free to move with seals fitted either side of a safety expansion
ring. Should either liquid leak past the seal it will pass out of the cooler
and be visible. There will be no intermixing or contamination.

Plate type

The plate-type heat exchanger is made up of a number of pressed plates
surrounded by seals and held together in a frame (Figure 7.5(a)). The
inlet and outlet branches for each liquid are attached to one end plate.
The arrangement of seals between the plates provides passageways
between adjacent plates for the cooling liquid and the hot liquid (Figure
7.5(b)). The plates have various designs of corrugations to aid heat
transfer and provide support for the large, flat surface. A double seal
arrangement is provided at each branch point with a drain hole to detect
leakage and prevent intermixing or contamination.

Operation

Temperature control of coolers is usually achieved by adjusting the
cooling liquid outlet valve. The inlet valve is left open and this ensures a
constant pressure within the cooler. This is particularly important with
sea water cooling where reducing pressure could lead to aeration or the
collecting of air within the cooler. Air remaining in a cooler will
considerably reduce the cooling effect. Vents are provided in the highest
points of coolers which should be opened on first filling and occasionally
afterwards. Vertical mounting of single pass coolers will ensure
automatic venting. Positioning the inlet cooling water branch facing
downwards and the outlet branch upwards will achieve automatic
venting with horizontally mounted coolers. Drain plugs are also fitted at
the lowest point in coolers.

Maintenance

Clean heat transfer surfaces are the main requirements for satisfactory
operation. With sea water cooling the main problem is fouling of the
surfaces, i.e. the presence of marine plant and animal growth.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 139 ---
140 Auxiliaries

Frame plate Carrier bar Pressure plate Support post

Figure 7.5 Plate-type heat exchanger: (a) construction, (b) operation

With shell and tube coolers the end covers are removed to give access to
the tubes for cleaning. Special tools are usually provided by the cooler
manufacturer for cleaning the tubes. The end covers can also be
cleaned.

Tube leakage can result from corrosion. This can be checked for, or
identified, by having the shell side of the cooler circulated while the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 140 ---
Auxiliaries 141

cooling water is shut off and the end covers removed. Any seepage into
the tubes will indicate the leak. It is also possible to introduce fluorescent
dyes into the shell-side liquid: any seepage will show under an ultraviolet
light as a bright green glow. Leaking tubes can be temporarily plugged
at each end or removed and replaced with a new tube.

Plate-type coolers which develop leaks present a more difficult problem.
The plates must be visually examined to detect the faulty point. The
joints between the plates can present problems in service, or on assembly
of the cooler after maintenance.

Where coolers are out of use for a long period, such as during surveys
or major overhauls, they should be drained on the sea water side,
flushed through or washed with fresh water, and left to dry until
required for service.

Heaters

Heaters, such as those used for heavy oil, are shell and tube type units,
similar in construction to coolers. The heating medium in most cases is
condensing steam.

Distillation systems

Distillation is the production of pure water from sea water by
evaporation and re-condensing. Distilled water is produced as a result of
evaporating sea water either by a boiling or a flash process. This
evaporation enables the reduction of the 32000 parts per million of
dissolved solids in sea water down to the one or two present in distilled
water. The machine used is called an ‘evaporator’, although the word
‘distiller’ is also used.

Boiling process

Sea water is boiled using energy from a heating coil, and by reducing the
pressure in the evaporator shell, boiling can take place at about 60°C.
The sea water from the ship’s services is first circulated through the
condenser and then part of the outlet is provided as feed to the
evaporation chamber (Figure 7.6). Hot diesel engine jacket water or
steam is passed through the heater nest and, because of the reduced
pressure in the chamber, the sea water boils. The steam produced rises
and passes through a water separator or demister which prevents water
droplets passing through. In the condensing section the steam becomes
pure water, which is drawn off by a distillate pump. The sea water feed is
regulated by a flow controller and about half the feed is evaporated. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 141 ---
142 Auxiliaries

Air
suction

Circulating
water outlet

Circulating water
inlet

Distilled water outlet ry
to tanks id
Es,
ve
aN
Overflow 1 GF;
weir UT ™
r= t hate RAHI
Ppa a
scoot Cerne
feed — ned M4
LL : | “y r “U’ Natt
Brine Hit Je 23
discharge a, >< Alternative
—ooeg«sec_eeeeu_eoN[-NjN*’_ _ éz. 5, steam
gs had connections
Shell Jacket water outlet

drain

Figure 7.6 Boiling process evaporator

remainder constantly overflows a weir and carries away the extra salty
water or brine. A combined brine and air ejector draws out the air and
brine from the evaporator.

Flash process

Flash evaporation is the result of a liquid containing a reasonable
amount of sensible heat at a particular pressure being admitted to a
chamber at a lower pressure. The liquid immediately changes into
steam, i.e. it flashes, without boiling taking place. The sensible heat
content, water pressure and chamber pressure are designed to provide a
desired rate of evaporation. More than one stage of evaporation can take
place by admitting the liquid into chambers with progressively lower
pressures.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 142 ---
Auxiliaries 143

Steam inlet to ejectors

Figure 7.7 Two-stage flash evaporator

A two-stage flash evaporator is shown in Figure 7.7. The feed pump
circulates sea water through the vapour condensers and the preheater.
The heated sea water then passes to the first-stage flash chamber where
some of it flashes off. A demister removes any water droplets from the
steam as it rises and is then condensed in the first-stage condenser.

The heated sea water passes to the second-stage flash chamber, which
is at a lower pressure, and more water flashes off. This steam is demisted
and condensed and, together with the distilled water from the
first-stage, is drawn off by the distillate pump.

The concentrated sea water or brine remaining in the second-stage
flash chamber is drawn off by the brine pump. The preheater uses steam
to heat the sea water and most of the latent heat from the flash steam is
returned to the sea water passing through the condensers. An air ejector
is used to maintain the low pressure in the chambers and to remove any
gases released from the sea water.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 143 ---
144 Auxiliaries

Maintenance

During the operation of evaporating plants, scale will form on the
heating surfaces. The rate of scale formation will depend upon the
operating temperature, the flow rate and density of the brine.

Scale formation will result in greater requirements for heating to
produce the rated quantities of distilled water or a fall-off in production
for a fixed heating supply.

Cold shocking, the alternate rapid heating and cooling of the tube
surfaces, for a boiling process type, can reduce scale build-up.
Ultimately, however, the plant must be shut down and the scale removed
either by chemical treatment or manual cleaning.

Oil/water separators

Oil/water separators are used to ensure that ships do not discharge oil
when pumping out bilges, oil tanks or any oil-contaminated space.
International legislation relating to oil pollution is becoming more and
more stringent in the limits set for oil discharge. Clean water suitable for
discharge is defined as that containing less than 15 parts per million of
oil. Oil/water separators using the gravity system can only achieve 100
parts per million and must therefore be used in conjunction with some
form of filter.

A complete oil/water separator and filter unit for 15 parts per million
purity is shown in Figure 7.8. The complete unit is first filled with clean
water; the oily water mixture is then pumped through the separator
inlet pipe into the coarse separating compartment. Here some oil, as a
result of its lower density, will separate and rise into the oil collection
space. The remaining oil/water mixture now flows down into the fine
separating compartment and moves slowly between the catch plates.
More oil will separate out onto the underside of these plates and travel
outwards until it is free to rise into the oil collecting space. The almost
oil-free water passes into the central pipe and leaves the separator unit.
The purity at this point will be 100 parts per million or less. An
automatically controlled valve releases the separated oil to a storage
tank. Air is released from the unit by a vent valve. Steam or electric
heating coils are provided in the upper and sometimes the lower parts of
the separator, depending upon the type of oil to be separated.

Where greater purity is required, the almost oil-free water passes to a
filter unit. The water flows in turn through two filter stages and the oil
removed passes to oil collecting spaces. The first-stage filter removes
physical impurities present and promotes some fine separation. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 144 ---
Auxiliaries 145

Automatic level
contro! for oil
drain

oil
collection
space

separating
compartment

separating
compartment
Mixture

Figure 7.8 Oily water separator

second-stage filter uses coalescer inserts to achieve the final de-oiling.
Coalescence is the breakdown of surface tension between oil droplets in
an oil/water mixture which causes them to join and increase in size. The
oil from the collecting spaces is drained away manually, as required,
usually about once a week. The filter inserts will require changing, the
period of useful life depending upon the operating conditions.

Current legislation requires the use of a monitoring unit which
continuously records and gives an alarm when levels of discharge in
excess of 15 parts per million occur.

Sewage treatment

The discharge of untreated sewage in controlled or territorial waters is
usually banned by legislation. International legislation is in force to
cover any sewage discharges within specified distances from land. As a
result, and in order to meet certain standards all new ships have sewage
treatment plants installed.

Untreated sewage as a suspended solid is unsightly. In order to break
down naturally, raw sewage must absorb oxygen. In excessive amounts it
could reduce the oxygen content of the water to the point where fish and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 145 ---
146 Auxiliaries

plant life would die. Pungent smells are also associated with sewage as a
result of bacteria which produce hydrogen sulphide gas. Particular
bacteria present in the human intestine known as E. coli are also to be
found in sewage. The E. coli count in a measured sample of water
indicates the amount of sewage present.

Two particular types of sewage treatment plant are in use, employing
either chemical or biological methods. The chemical method is basically
a storage tank which collects solid material for disposal in permitted
areas or to a shore collection facility. The biological method treats the
sewage so that it is acceptable for discharge inshore.

Chemical sewage treatment

This system minimises the collected sewage, treats it and retains it until it
can be discharged in a decontrolled area, usually well out to sea. Shore
receiving facilities may be available in some ports to take this retained
sewage.

This system must therefore collect and store sewage produced while
the ship is in a controlled area. The liquid content of the system is
reduced, where legislation permits, by discharging wash basins, bath and
shower drains straight overboard. Any liquid from water closets is
treated and used as flushing water for toilets. The liquid must be treated
such that it is acceptable in terms of smell and appearance.

A treatment plant is shown diagrammatically in Figure 7.9. Various
chemicals are added at different points for odour and colour removal
and also to assist breakdown and sterilisation. A comminutor is used to
physically break up the sewage and assist the chemical breakdown
process. Solid material settles out in the tank and is stored prior to
discharge into the sullage tank: the liquid is recycled for flushing use.

Tests must be performed daily to check the chemical dosage rates.
This is to prevent odours developing and also to avoid corrosion as a
result of high levels of alkalinity.

Biological sewage treatment

The biological system utilises bacteria to completely break down the
sewage into an acceptable substance for discharge into any waters. The
extended aeration process provides a climate in which oxygen-loving
bacteria multiply and digest the sewage, converting it into a sludge.
These oxygen-loving bacteria are known as aerobic.

The treatment plant uses a tank which is divided into three watertight
compartments: an aeration compartment, settling compartment and a
chlorine contact compartment (Figure 7.10). The sewage enters the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 146 ---
Auxiliaries 147

ii
Pobewl, SF

4 Lo ee

| ~Betent of packaged plant
zi x] Gate valve ,
Sp Butterfly valve 1 WCs and urinals
2 Separation section
Dd Non return valve 3 Separated liquids tank
x rn valve 4 Separated solids tank
[A Screw down non return B Teblet tens
x Pressure relief valve 6 Treatment tank
7 Self cleaning filter
8 Grinder pump
9 Sullage pump

10 Sanitary pump

11. Sanitary pump

12 Accumulator

13 Control panel

14 Sullage tank

15 Overflow

16 Overboard discharge

17 Deck discharge to shore facility
18 External flushing water supply
19 Pressure gauge

20 Treatment tank vent

21 Sullage tank vent

Figure 7.9 Chemical sewage treatment plant

aeration compartment where it is digested by aerobic bacteria and
micro-organisms, whose existence is aided by atmospheric oxygen which
is pumped in. The sewage then flows into the settling compartment
where the activated sludge is settled out. The clear liquid flows to the
chlorinator and after treatment to kill any remaining bacteria it is
discharged. Tablets are placed in the chlorinator and require

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 147 ---
148 Auxiliaries

son
VENT INLET
a

DISCHARGE PUMP CHLORINE AERATION SETTLING AERATION
CONTACT

Figure 7.10 Biological sewage treatment plant

replacement as they are used up. The activated sludge in the settling
tank is continuously recycled and builds up, so that every two to three
months it must be partially removed. This sludge must be discharged
only in a decontrolled area.

Incinerator

Stricter legislation with regard to pollution of the sea, limits and, in some
instances, completely bans the discharge of untreated waste water,
sewage, waste oil and sludge. The ultimate situation of no discharge can
be achieved by the use of a suitable incinerator. When used in
conjunction with a sewage plant and with facilities for burning oil
sludges, the incinerator forms a complete waste disposal package.

One type of incinerator for shipboard use is shown in Figure 7.11.
The combustion chamber is a vertical cylinder lined with refractory
material. An auxiliary oil-fired burner is used to ignite the refuse and oil
sludge and is thermostatically controlled to minimise fuel consumption.
A sludge burner is used to dispose of oil shudge, water and sewage sludge
and works in conjunction with the auxiliary burner. Combustion air is
provided by a forced draught fan and swirls upwards from tangential
ports in the base. A rotating-arm device accelerates combustion and also
clears ash and non-combustible matter into an ash hopper. The loading
door is interlocked to stop the fan and burner when opened.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 148 ---
Auxiliaries 149

Figure 7.11 Incinerator

Solid material, usually in sacks, is burnt by an automatic cycle of
operation. Liquid waste is stored in a tank, heated and then pumped to
the sludge burner where it is burnt in an automatic cycle. After use the
ash box can be emptied overboard.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 149 ---
Chapter 8
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and
their treatment

Crude oil is, at the present time, the source of most fuel oils for marine
use. Synthetic fuels are being developed but will probably be too
expensive for ship propulsion. Solid fuel, such as coal, is returning in a
small way for certain specialised trade runs. The various refined
products of crude oil seem likely to remain as the major forms of marine
fuel.

The refining process for crude oil separates by heating and distillation
the various fractions of the oil. Paraffin fuel would be used in gas
turbine plants, gas oil in high- and medium-speed diesel engines and
crude oils in slow-speed and some medium-speed diesels. Paraffin and
gas oil are known as ‘distillates’, which are free flowing, easily stored and
can be used without further treatment. Residual fuels, however, are very
viscous or thick at normal temperatures, and require heating before use.
Additional treatment to remove harmful chemicals or sulphur may be
required for all or some of the refined products, depending upon their
application. Finally blending or mixing of the various oils is done to
provide a range of commercial fuels for different duties.

Fuel oils

Fuel oils have various properties which determine their performance
and are quoted in specifications. The specific gravity or relative density is
the weight of a given volume of fuel compared to the weight of the same
volume of water expressed as a ratio, and measured at a fixed
temperature. Viscosity is a resistance to flow. A highly viscous fuel will
therefore require heating in order to make it flow. Measurement of
viscosity is by Redwood, Saybolt or Engler instrument flow times for a
given volume of fuel.

The ignition quality of a fuel is measured by the time delay between
injection and combustion, which should be short for good controlled
burning. Ignition quality is indicated as cetane number, diesel index and

150

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 150 ---
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment — 151

calculated cetane index; the higher the value the better the ignition
quality of the fuel.

The flash point is a figure obtained and used mainly to indicate the
maximum safe storage temperature. The test determines the tempera-
ture at which the fuel will give off sufficient vapours to ignite when a
flame is applied. Two values are possible: an open flash point for
atmospheric heating, and a closed flash point when the fuel is covered
while heating.

Low-temperature properties are measured in terms of pour point and
cloud point. The pour point is slightly above the temperature at which the
fuel just flows under its own weight. It is the lowest temperature at which
the fuel can be easily handled. At the cloud. point waxes will form in the
fuel. Below the cloud point temperature, pipe or filter blocking may
occur.

The carbon residue forming property of a fuel is usually measured by
the Conradson method. Controlled burning of a fuel sample gives a
measure of the residual carbon and other remains.

Sulphur content is of importance since it is considered a cause of engine
wear. A maximum limit, expressed as a percentage by weight, is usually
included in specifications.

The calorific value of a fuel is the heat energy released during
combustion. Two values are used, the more common being the Higher
Calorific Value, which is the heat energy resulting from combustion.
The Lower Calorific Value is a measure of the heat energy available and
does not include the heat energy contained in steam produced during
combustion but passing away as exhaust. The measurement is obtained
from a bomb calorimeter test where a small fuel quantity is burnt under
controlled conditions.

The various fuel properties have different effects on performance of
the engine and the storage and handling requirements of the system.
Blending and the use of various additives will also influence both the
engine and the system.

Viscosity will affect jerk-type injector pumps and injector operation
since the liquid fuel is the operating medium. The pump mechanism is
lubricated by the fuel which, if it is of low viscosity, will cause wear.

Cloud point and pour point values are important when considering
the lowest system operating temperatures. Wax deposited in filters and
fuel lines will cause blockages and may restrict fuel flow to the engine.

The cetane number or diesel index will determine injection timing
and also influences the combustion noise and production of black
smoke. The temperature in a fuel system should be progressively
increased in order to deliver fuel at the correct viscosity to the injectors
or burners. System cleanliness is also very important to reduce wear on
the many finely machined parts in the fuel injection equipment. Regular

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 151 ---
152 Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment

attention to filters and general system cleanliness is essential. Various
additives are used to, for instance, remove lacquer from metal surfaces,
reduce wear and prevent rust.

Lubricating oils

Lubricating oils are a product of the crude oil refining process. The
various properties required of the oil are obtained as a result of blending
and the introduction of additives. The physical and chemical properties
of an oil are changed by additives which may act as oxidation inhibitors,
wear reducers, dispersants, detergents, etc. The important lubricant
properties will now be examined.

Viscosity has already been mentioned with respect to fuel oils, but it is
also an important property of lubricating oils. Viscosity index is also
used, which is the rate of change of viscosity with temperature.

The Total Base Number (TBN) is an indication of the quantity of alkali,
i.e. base, which is available in a lubricating oil to neutralise acids.

The acidity of an oil must be monitored to avoid machinery damage
and neutralisation number is used as the unit of measurement.

The oxidation resistance of a lubricant can also be measured by
neutralisation number. When excessively oxidised an oil must be
discarded.

The carbon-forming tendency of a lubricating oil must be known,
particularly for oils exposed to heat. A carbon residue test is usually
performed to obtain a percentage value.

The demulsibility of an oil refers to its ability to mix with water and then
release the water in a centrifuge. This property is also related to the
tendency to form sludge.

Corrosion inhibition relates to the oil’s ability to protect a surface when
water is present in the oil. This is important where oils can be
contaminated by fresh or salt water leaks.

The modern lubricant must be capable of performing numerous
duties. This is achieved through blending and additives. It must prevent
metal-to-metal contact and reduce friction and wear at moving parts.
The oil must be stable and not break down or form carbon when
exposed to high temperatures, such as where oil cooling is used. Any
contaminants, such as acidic products of combustion, must be
neutralised by alkaline additives; any carbon build up on surfaces must
be washed away by detergent additives and held in suspension by a
dispersant additive. The oil must also be able to absorb water and then
release it during purification, but meanwhile still protect the metal parts
from corrosion.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 152 ---
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment — 153

The various types of engine and other equipment will have oils
developed to meet their particular duties.

Trunk piston engine lubricating oil must lubricate the cylinders as well
as the crankcase: some contamination from the products of combustion
will therefore occur, resulting in acidity and carbon deposits. The oil
must, in addition to lubricating, neutralise the acids and absorb the
deposits.

Turbine oil, while lubricating the moving parts, must also carry away
considerable quantities of heat from the bearings. This calls for a stable
oil which will not break down at high temperatures or form deposits.
Where gearbox lubrication is also required certain extreme pressure
(EP) additives will be needed to assist the lubricating film. Contact with
water in the form of steam will be inevitable so good demulsifying
properties will be essential.

Slow-speed diesel engines will have separate cylinder and crankcase
lubrication systems. The cylinder oil will have to neutralise the acidic
products of combustion and also have good detergent properties to keep
the metal. surfaces clean. Crankcase oils are either detergent type,
multi-purpose oils or rust and oxidation inhibited. Good demulsification
and anti-corrosive properties are required together with oxidation
resistance which is provided by the inhibited crankcase oil. The
detergent or multi-purpose oil is particularly useful where oil cooling of
pistons occurs or where contamination by combustion products is
possible.

Oil treatment

Both fuel oils and lubricating oils require treatment before passing to
the engine. This will involve storage and heating to allow separation of
water present, coarse and fine filtering to remove solid particles and also
centrifuging.

The centrifugal separator is used to separate two liquids, for example
oil and water, or a liquid and solids as in contaminated oil. Separation is
speeded up by the use of a centrifuge and can be arranged as a
continuous process. Where a centrifuge is arranged to separate two
liquids, it is known as a ‘purifier’. Where a centrifuge is arranged to
separate impurities and small amounts of water from oil it is known as a
‘clarifier’.

The separation of impurities and water from fuel oil is essential for
good combustion. The removal of contaminating impurities from
lubricating oil will reduce engine wear and possible breakdowns. The
centrifuging of all but the most pure clean oils is therefore an absolute
necessity.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 153 ---
154 Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment

Centrifuging

A centrifuge consists of an electric motor drive to a vertical shaft on the
top of which is mounted the bowl assembly. An outer framework
surrounds the assembly and carries the various feed and discharge

connections. The bowl can be a solid assembly which retains the
separated sludge and operates non-continuously, or the bowl] can be

1—feed

2—purified
3—separated water
4-sludge

Figure 8.1 Purifying bowl arrangement

arranged so that the upper and lower parts separate and the sludge can
be discharged while the centrifuge operates continuously. The dirty oil
is admitted into the centre of the bowl, passes up through a stack of discs
and out through the top (Figure 8.1).

The purifying process

The centrifugal separation of two liquids, such as oil and water, results
in the formation of a cylindrical interface between the two. The
positioning of this interface within the centrifuge is very important for
correct operation. The setting or positioning of the interface is achieved
by the use of dam rings or gravity discs at the outlet of the centrifuge.
Various diameter rings are available for each machine when different
densities of oil are used. As a general rule, the largest diameter ring
which does not break the ‘seal’ should be used.

The clarifying process

Cleaning oil which contains little or no water is achieved in a clarifier
bowl where the impurities and water collect at the bowl periphery. A

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 154 ---
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment — 155

Figure 8.2 Clarifying bowl arrangement

clarifier bowl has only one outlet (Figure 8.2). No gravity disc is
necessary since no interface is formed; the bowl therefore operates at
maximum separating efficiency since the oil is subjected to the
maximum centrifugal force.

The bowl discs

Purifier and clarifier bowls each contain a stack of conical discs. The
discs may number up to 150 and are separated from one another by a
small gap. Separation of impurities and water from the oil takes place
between these discs. A series of aligned holes near the outside edge
permits entry of the dirty oil. The action of centrifugal force causes the
lighter components (the clean oil) to flow inwards and the water and
impurities flow outwards. The water and impurities form a sludge which
moves outwards along the undersides of the discs to the periphery of the
bowl.

Non-continuous operation

Certain designs of centrifuges are arranged for a short period of
operation and are then shut down for cleaning. After cleaning and
removal of the sludge from the bowl, the machine is returned to service.
Two different designs are used for this method of operation: a long
narrow bowl and a short wide bowl. The narrow-bow! machine has to be
cleaned after a shorter running period and requires dismantling in
order to clean the bowl. Cleaning of the bowl is, however, much simpler
since it does not contain a stack of discs. The wide-bow! machine can be
cleaned in place, although there is the added complication of the stack of
conical discs which must be cleaned.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 155 ---
156 Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment

Continuous operation

Modern wide-bowl centrifuge designs enable continuous operation over
a considerable period of time. This is achieved by an ejection process
which is timed to discharge the sludge at regular intervals. The sludge
deposits build up on the bowl periphery as separation continues, and the
ejection process is timed to clear these deposits before they begin to
affect the separation process. To commence the ejection process the oil
feed to the centrifuge is first shut off and the oil remaining in the bowl is
removed by admitting flushing water. Water is then fed into the
hydraulic system in the bottom of the bowl to open a number of
spring-loaded valves. This ‘operating’ water causes the sliding bow!
bottom to move downwards and open discharge ports in the bowi
periphery. The sludge is discharged through these ports by centrifugal

Figure 8.3 Sludge discharge

force (Figure 8.3). Closing ‘operating’ water is now fed in to raise the
sliding bowl up again and close the discharge ports. Water is fed into the
bowl to remake the liquid seal required for the separation process, the
oil feed reopened, and separation continues.

The complete ejection cycle takes only a few seconds and the
centrifuge is in continuous operation throughout. Different bowl
designs exist for various forms of sludge discharge, e.g. total discharge,
controlled partial discharge, and so on. With controlled partial discharge
the oil supply is not shut off and not all of the sludge is discharged. In
this way the separation process is not stopped. Whatever method is
adopted the centrifuge can be arranged so that the discharge process is
performed manually or by an automatic timer.

Maintenance

The bowl and the disc stack will require periodical cleaning whether or
not an ejection process is in operation. Care should be taken in stripping

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 156 ---
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment — 157

down the bowl, using only the special tools provided and noting that
some left-hand threads are used. The centrifuge is a perfectly balanced
piece of equipment, rotating at high speeds: all parts should therefore
be handled and treated with care.

Heavy fuel oil separation

Changes in refinery techniques are resulting in heavy fuel oils with
increased density and usually contaminated with catalytic fines. These
are small particles of the catalysts used in the refining process. They are
extremely abrasive and must be removed from the fuel before it enters
the engine. The generally accepted maximum density limit for purifier
operation is 991 kg/m? at 15°C.

In the ALCAP separation system the separator has no gravity disc and
operates, to some extent, as a clarifier. Clean oil is discharged from the
oil outlet and separated sludge and water collect at the periphery of the
bowl. When the separated water reaches the disc stack, some water will
escape with the cleaned oil. The increase in water content is sensed by a
water-detecting transducer in the outlet (Figure 8.4). The water

5
1
\
!
i
1

Cleaned oil

and water

Figure 8.4 Fuel oil separation control

transducer signal is fed to the MARST 1 microprocessor which will
discharge the water when a predetermined level is reached. The water
will be discharged from sludge ports in the bowl or, if the amount is
large, from a water drain valve.

The ALCAP system has also proved effective in the removal of
catalytic fines from fuel oil.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 157 ---
158 Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment

Lubricating oil centrifuging
Diesel engines

Lubricating oil in its passage through a diesel engine will become
contaminated by wear particles, combustion products and water. The
centrifuge, arranged as a purifier, is used to continuously remove these
impurities.

The large quantity of oil flowing through a system means that full flow
lubrication would be too costly. A bypass system, drawing dirty oil from
low down in the oil sump remote from the pump suction and returning
clean oil close to the pump suction, is therefore used. Since this is a
bypass system the aim should be to give the lowest degree of impurity for
the complete system, which may mean running the centrifuge somewhat
below the maximum throughput.

Water-washing during centrifuging can be adopted if the oil
manufacturer or supplier is in agreement; but some oils contain
water-soluble additives, which would of course be lost if water-washed.
The advantages of water-washing include the dissolving and removal of
acids, improved separation by wetting solid impurities, and the constant
renewal of the bowl liquid seal. The washing water is usually heated to a
slightly higher temperature than the oil.

Detergent-type oils are used for cleaning as well as lubricating and
find a particular application in trunk-type engines and some slow-speed
engines. Detergent-type oil additives are usually soluble and must not
therefore be water-washed.

Steam turbines

The lubricating oil in a steam turbine will become contaminated by
system impurities and water from condensed steam, so bypass
separation is used to clean the oil. The dirty oil is drawn from the bottom
of the sump and clean oil returned near the pump suction. Preheating of
the oil before centrifuging assists the separation process. Water washing
of the oil can be done where the manufacturer or supplier of the oil
permits it.

Homogenisers

A homogeniser is used to create a stable oil and water emulsion which
can be burnt in a boiler or diesel engine. Such an emulsion is considered
to bring about more efficient combustion and also reduce solid emissions
in the exhaust gas.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 158 ---
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment — 159

Various designs utilise an impact or rolling action to break down the
fuel particles and mix them with the water. It is also considered that
agglomerates of asphaltenes and bituminous matter are broken down
and can therefore be burnt. The manufacturers contend that a
homogeniser can render a sludge burnable whereas a centrifuge would
remove such material. Homogenisers are able to reduce catalytic fines
into finely ground particles which will do no harm.

Shipboard experience with homogenisers is limited and generally not
favourable. Most authorities consider it better to remove water and solid
contaminants than simply grind them down.

Blenders

Blending is the mixing of two fuels, usually a heavy fuel and marine
diesel oil. The intention is to produce an intermediate-viscosity fuel
suitable for use in auxiliary diesels. The fuel cost savings for
intermediate fuel grades are sufficient to justify the cost of the blending
plant. Furthermore no supply problems exist since the appropriate
mixture can be produced by the blender from available heavy and
marine diesel oils.

The blending unit thoroughly mixes the two fuels in the appropriate
proportions before supplying it to a blended fuel supply tank.

Compatibility can be a problem and tests should be conducted on any
new fuel before it is used. Incompatible fuels may produce sludge or
sediment. The cracked residues presently supplied from many
refineries are very prone to incompatibility problems when blended with
marine diesel oil.

Filters and strainers

Mechanical separation of solid contaminants from oil systems (fuel and
lubricating) is achieved by the use of filters and strainers. A strainer is
usually a coarse filter to remove the larger contaminating particles. Both
are arranged as full flow units, usually mounted in pairs (duplex) with
one as a standby.

The strainer usually employs a mesh screen, an assembly of closely
packed metal plates or wire coils which effectively block all but the
smallest particles. It is usually fitted on the suction side of a pump and
must be cleaned regularly or when the pressure differential across it
become unacceptable. Where suction conditions are critical the strainer
will be fitted on the discharge side of the pump. When cleaning is
undertaken the other unit will be connected into the system by

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 159 ---
160 Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment

changeover valves or levers and oil circulation will continue. The
particles of dirt collect on the outside of the strainer element or basket
and can be removed by compressed air or brushing. A strainer should be
cleaned as soon as it is taken out of the system, then reassembled and left
ready for use.

Magnetic strainers are often used in lubricating oil systems, where a
large permanent magnet collects any ferrous particles which are
circulating in the system. The magnet is surrounded by a cage or basket
to simplify cleaning.

Fine filters, again in pairs, are used to remove the smallest particles of
dirt from oil before the oil enters the finely machined engine parts in
either the fuel injection system or the bearings of the rotating
machinery. Fine filters are full-flow units which clean all the oil supplied
to the engine. The filtering substance may be a natural or synthetic
fibrous woollen felt or paper. A felt-type fine filter is shown in Figure
8.5. A steel division plate divides the steel pressure vessel into an upper
and a lower chamber. Dirty oil passes into the upper chamber and
through the filter element, then the filtered oil passes down the central
tube to the lower chamber and out of the unit. A magnetic filter can be

SERVICING INDICATOR “ = ‘LIFTING HANDLES

VENT PLUG

BYPASS. Peccongartl
FILTERS ONLY!

MAGNETIC ELEMENT ¥ j u “~—— STEAM HEATING JACKET

SROFELT 200 CARTRIDGE
FLOW OUT TOIN wie

DIVISION PLATE
WLET

BODY DRAIN

DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE
‘CONNECTIONS

Figure 8.5 Fine filter

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 160 ---
Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment 161

positioned as shown in the central tube. A spring-loaded bypass is shown
in the diagram, for lubricating oil filters only, to ensure a flow of oil
should the filter become blocked. The cartridge in the design shown is
disposable although designs exist to enable back-flushing with com-
pressed air toclean the filter element as required. The filter unit shown will
be one of a pair which can be alternately in service.

In full-flow filtration systems all the oil passes through the filter on its
way to the engine. In a by-pass system most of the oil goes to the
lubrication system and a part is by-passed to a filter. A higher pressure
drop across the filter can then be used and a slower filtration rate. A
centrifugal filter can be used in a by-pass system where the oil passes
through a rotor and spins it at high speed (Figure 8.6). Dirt particles in
the oil are then deposited on the walls of the rotor and the clean oil
returns to the sump. This type of filter cannot block or clog and requires
no replaceable elements. It must be dismantled for cleaning of the rotor
unit at regular intervals.

Microbiological infestation
Minute microorganisms, i.e. bacteria, can exist in lubricating oils and
fuel oils. Under suitable conditions they can grow and multiply at

phenomenal rates. Their presence leads to the formation of acids and
sludge, metal staining, deposits and serious corrosion. The presence of

Body

Hollow spindle —

Baffle
Dirt mass —_
Screen.

Rotor ~._

Orive chamber —~

Figure 8.6 Centrifugal filter

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 161 ---
162 Fuel oils, lubricating oils and their treatment

slime and the smell of rotten eggs (hydrogen sulphide) indicates a
contaminated system.

Water in a lubricating oil or fuel oil, oxygen and appropriate
temperature conditions will result in the growth of bacteria and
infestation of a system. The removal of water, or ensuring its presence is
at a minimum, is the best method of infestation prevention. The higher
the temperature in settling, service and drain tanks holding fuel or
lubricating oils, the better.

Test kits are available to detect the presence of bacteria, and biocides
can be used to kill all bacteria present in a system. The system must then
be thoroughly flushed out.

Exhaust emissions

Exhaust gases from engines and boilers contain atmospheric pollutants
which are principally nitrogen oxides (NO,), sulphur oxides (SO,),
carbon oxides and unburnt hydrocarbon particulates. These various
pollutants contribute to smog and acid rain, and carbon oxides
contribute to the greenhouse effect, which is increasing global
temperatures.

The IMO Marine Environment Protection Committee is considering
ways to reduce the pollutants in exhaust emissions. IMO is to add a new
Annex to MARPOL 73/78 to deal with atmospheric pollution.

The SO, content of emission may be reduced by either a reduction of
the sulphur content in fuels or an exhaust gas treatment system. New
engine technology may reduce NO, formation and thus emissions, while
carbon oxides can be reduced by good plant maintenance.

Selective Catalytic Reduction Systems are in use on some vessels, which
are said to reduce NO, emissions by 90 per cent and carbon oxides by
80 per cent. The equipment has been successfully operated on new
buildings and more recently as a retrofit on existing ships.

Major research initiatives are underway by engine builders, and
classification societies, in cooperation with shipowners, in order to obtain
data regarding achievable targets and suitable methods of measurement.
This data will enable IMO and National Authorities to develop realistic
legislation with which owners can readily comply on new and existing
vessels.

The IMO Sub-Committee on Bulk Chemicals has prepared a draft of
the new Annex to MARPOL 73/78, which will be considered at a
conference to be held in 1996. Procedures to bring the amendments into
force will be considered and the designation of special areas with specific
emission criteria.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 162 ---
Chapter 9
Refrigeration, air conditioning
and ventilation

Refrigeration is a process in which the temperature of a space or its
contents is reduced to below that of their surroundings. Air conditioning is
the control of temperature and humidity in a space together with the
circulation, filtering and refreshing of the air. Ventilation is the
circulation and refreshing of the air in a space without necessarily a
change of temperature. With the exception of special processes, such as
fish freezing, air is normally employed as the heat transfer medium. Asa
result fans and ducting are used for refrigeration, air conditioning and
ventilation. The three processes are thus interlinked and all involve the
provision of a suitable climate for men, machinery and cargo.

Refrigeration

Refrigeration of cargo spaces and storerooms employs a system of
components to remove heat from the space being cooled. This heat is
transferred to another body at a lower temperature. The cooling of air
for air conditioning entails a similar process.

The transfer of heat takes place in a simple system: firstly, in the
evaporator where the lower temperature of the refrigerant cools the
body of the space being cooled; and secondly, in the condenser where
the refrigerant is cooled by air or water. The usual system employed for
marine refrigeration plants is the vapour compression cycle, for which
the basic diagram is shown in Figure 9.1.

The pressure of the refrigerant gas is increased in the compressor and
it thereby becomes hot. This hot, high-pressure gas is passed through
into a condenser. Depending on the particular application, the
refrigerant gas will be cooled either by air or water, and because it is still
at a high pressure it will condense. The liquid refrigerant is then
distributed through a pipe network until it reaches a control valve
alongside an evaporator where the cooling is required. This regulating
valve meters the flow of liquid refrigerant into the evaporator, which is

163

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 163 ---
164 Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

9 Sensing bulb

Compressor

Evaporator ' i Condenser

Expansion
valve
regulator

Figure 9.1 Vapour compression cycle

at a lower pressure. Air from the cooled space or air conditioning system
is passed over the evaporator and boils off the liquid refrigerant, at the
same time cooling the air. The design of the system and evaporator
should be such that all the liquid refrigerant is boiled off and the gas
slightly superheated before it returns to the compressor at a low
pressure to be recompressed.

Thus it will be seen that heat that is transferred from the air to the
evaporator is then pumped round the system until it reaches the
condenser where it is transferred or rejected to the ambient air or water.

It should be noted that where an air-cooled condenser is employed in
very small plants, such as provision storerooms, adequate ventilation is
required to help remove the heat being rejected by the condenser. Also,
in the case of water-cooled condensers, fresh water or sea water may be
employed. Fresh water is usual when a central fresh-water/sea-water
heat exchanger is employed for all engine room requirements. Where
this is the case, because of the higher cooling-water temperature to the

lenser delivery temperatures i i


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 164 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation — 165

example it will boil off or evaporate at a low temperature and reasonable
pressure and it will condense at a temperature near normal sea water
temperature at a reasonable pressure. The refrigerant must also be free

from toxic, explosive, flammable and corrosive properties where

svstem. A further disadvantage of carbon dioxide was the verv hich

———
refrigerant gas will not condense. This was one of the disadvantages of

machinery.
Between the carbon dioxide era and the present refrigerants, methy]

aaa 1 ton

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 165 ---
166 — Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

Environmentally friendly refrigerants

Most modern refrigerants are chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which have a
damaging effect on the ozone layer, in addition to accumulating in the
atmosphere and causing global warming. The Montreal Protocol, signed
in 1987 and reviewed in 1990 and 1992, regulates the manufacture and
use of CFC gases. The phasing-out of existing CFCs is likely to form part
of a new Annex to MARPOL 73/78 and alternatives are being sought for
shipboard use.

Refrigerant 12 or CFC 12 can readily be replaced by HFC 134A, which
causes zero ozone depletion and alternatives to CFC11, HCFC 22 and
R502 are being developed. Other choices include the use of carbon
dioxide or ammonia, both previously used as refrigerants but potentially
dangerous if incorrectly handled. Lloyds Register has issued Guidance
Notes for Marine Ammonia Plant as a supplement to the Rules, owing to
the resurgence of interest in this refrigerant.

Secondary refrigerants

Both large air conditioning and cargo cooling systems may employ a
secondary refrigerant. In this case the primary refrigerant evaporator
will be circulated with the secondary refrigerant, which is then passed to
the space to be cooled. Secondary refrigerants are employed where the
installation is large and complex to avoid the circulation of expensive
primary refrigerants in large quantities. These primary refrigerants can
be very searching, that is they can escape through minute clearances, so
it is essential to keep the number of possible leakage points to a
minimum.

In the case of air conditioning plants, fresh water is the normal
secondary refrigerant, which may or may not have a glycol solution
added. The more common secondary refrigerant on large cargo
installations is a calcium chloride brine to which is added inhibitors to
prevent corrosion.

System components

Compressors

There are three types of compressor in use at sea: centrifugal,
reciprocating, and screw.

Centrifugal compressors are used with Refrigerants 11 or 12 and are
limited in their application to large air conditioning installations. They
are similar in appearance to horizontal centrifugal pumps and may have
one or more stages.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 166 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation — 167

Figure 9.3 Single-screw compressor

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 167 ---
168 Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

Reciprocating compressors cover the whole spectrum of refrigeration
requirements at sea, from air conditioning to low temperature cargo
installations. They are normally of a compact design and may be of an
in-line, V or W configuration. Figure 9.2 shows a 4-cylinder W
configuration. The construction arrangement can be seen and the
principle of operation is similar in many respects to an air compressor.
For low-temperature applications the machine may be arranged as a
two-stage compressor and some machines are made so that they can be
changed from single to two stage, depending on cargo requirements. As
the crankcase is subject to refrigerant pressure, the drive shaft seal is
required to prevent a flow of refrigerant out of the compressor or
ingress of air. In semi-hermetic or hermetic machines this problem is
obviated as the motor and compressor are in one casing.

Screw compressors have replaced reciprocating compressors in large
installations for two reasons. Firstly, fewer and more compact machines
are used; secondly, a reduced number of working parts results in greater
reliability with reduced maintenance requirements. There are two types
of screw compressor; one employs two rotors side by side and the other,
which is a more modern development, is a single rotor with two star
wheels, one on either side. As the star wheels compress the gas in
opposite directions, the thrust on this type of rotor is balanced. Such a
compressor in shown in Figure 9.3. The principle of operation for both
types is similar to a screw-type positive displacement pump (see Chapter
6).

To achieve a seal between the rotors, oil is injected into the
compressor: to prevent this being carried into the system, the oil
separator is larger and more complex than the normal delivery oil
separator associated with a reciprocating compressor. Also, because
some of the heat of compression is transferred to the oil, a larger oil
cooler has to be fitted, which may be either water or refrigerant cooled.

Since a.c. motor driven compressors are usually single speed, some
form of cylinder unloading gear is necessary to reduce the compressor
capacity. This unloading gear usually comprises a means of holding the
suction valves open.

Condensers

Condensers are generally water cooled, as mentioned previously, and
are of the shell and tube type. A typical modern unit is shown in Figure
9.4 in which it will be seen that the refrigerant passes over the tubes and
the cooling water is passed through the tubes. In the case of sea water
cooled condensers it is usual to have a two-pass arrangement through
the tubes. The sea water side maintenance mentioned for coolers in
Chapter 7 applies also to this condenser.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 168 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation 169

Refrigerant gas

Refrigerant
liquid outlet

Section through dished end cover fitted to |
condensers for use in a marine application

Figure 9.4 Condenser

Where condensers are of 3 m and over in length between tube plates it
is quite usual to have a double refrigerant liquid outlet so that the
refrigerant drains away easily when the vessel is pitching or rolling.

Evaporators

Evaporators fall into two categories: refrigerant to air and refrigerant to
secondary refrigerant types.

The most simple of the refrigerant to air type is in the form of a bank
of tubes with an extended surface of gills or fins. In these the refrigerant
is expanded in the tubes while the air is passed over the fins by
circulating fans. This type of unit will be found in the domestic cold

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 169 ---
170 Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

Water or Water or
brine outlet brine intet

Refrigerant
suction
from
compressor

Refrigerant inlet

a a
m a Lap
Section of

Drain/tube i i
inspection port inner fin

Figure 9.5 Evaporator

stores in which the fan and coil unit are one, and a larger version in
direct expansion cargo or air conditioning systems where the fan or fans
may be remote.

A more elaborate design is used for secondary refrigerant cooling
which takes the form of a shell and tube vessel. Such a type is illustrated
in Figure 9.5 and employs direct expansion. In this case the refrigerant
passes through the tubes and the secondary refrigerant is passed over
the tube bank. The refrigerant is sprayed into the tubes so as to ensure
an even distribution through all the tubes. Any oil present is not sprayed
and drains away. In this type of evaporator two features are employed to
improve heat transfer efficiency. On the refrigerant side there is a
centre tube with a spiral fin fitted around it (as illustrated) or the insert
may be in the form of an aluminium star which has a spiral twist on it.
Also, baffles are arranged on the brine side to deflect the brine across
the tube bank.

Refrigerant flow control valves

It is usual to have a solenoid valve in the liquid line prior to the
expansion valve or regulator. This shuts or opens as determined by the
thermostat in the space or the secondary refrigerant being cooled. It
may also be used to shut off various circuits in a cooler when the
machine is operating on part-load conditions.

The expansion valve/regulator is a more complex piece of equipment
which meters the flow of refrigerant from the high-pressure to the
low-pressure side of the system. This may be of the thermostatic type, as
shown in Figure 9.6. The bulb senses the temperature of the refrigerant

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 170 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation 17!

Bulb >

Capillary tube

Figure 9.6 Thermostatic expansion valve or regulator

at the outlet from the evaporator and opens or closes the valve
accordingly. The design of the valve is critical and is related to the
pressure difference between the delivery and expansion side. There-
fore, it is essential that the delivery pressure is maintained at or near the
maximum design pressure. Thus, if the vessel is operating in cold sea
water temperatures it is necessary to re-circulate the cooling water to
maintain the correct delivery pressure from the condenser. If this is not
done, the valve will ‘hunt’ and refrigerant liquid may be returned to the
compressor suction.

Ancillary fittings

Delivery oil separators are essential for screw compressors, but for other
systems, depending on the design criteria and length of pipe run, they
may or may not be fitted.

Refrigerant driers are essential with the Freon gases to remove water
from the system, otherwise freezing of the water can take place in the
expansion valve.

A liquid receiver may be fitted for two reasons. Firstly, to give a
sufficient reserve of refrigerant in the system to cater for various
operating conditions (this is known as a back-up receiver). Secondly, for
storage of the refrigerant where it is required to pump over, i.e. store,
the charge for maintenance purposes. In very small systems this pump
over can sometimes be achieved in the condenser.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 171 ---
172 Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

Cargo refrigeration

Refrigerated cargo vessels usually require a system which provides for
various spaces to be cooled to different temperatures. The arrange-
ments adopted can be considered in three parts: the central primary
refrigerating plant, the brine circulating system, and the air circulating
system for cooling the cargo in the hold.

A central refrigerating plant is shown in Figure 9.7. The refrigerant
flow through the chiller splits into four circuits, each with its own
expansion valve. The four circuits are used to control the amount of
evaporator surface, depending on the degree of condenser loading at
the time, thus giving greater system flexibility. The large oil separator is
a feature of screw compressor plants and the circuit for oil return is
shown in the illustration.

Each primary refrigerant circuit has its own evaporator within the
brine chiller (as shown in Figure 9.7) which results in totally
independent gas systems. There will probably be three such systems on a
cargo or container ship installation. Since they are totally independent
each system can be set to control the outlet brine at different
temperatures. Each brine temperature is identified by a colour and will
have its own circulating pump. The cold brine is supplied to the cargo
space air cooler and the flow of this brine is controlled by the
temperature of the air leaving the cooler.

‘onime our

H
BRINE CHNLLER

Figure 9.7 Central refrigerating plant

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 172 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation — 173

The cooler in the cargo space is arranged for air circulation over it and
then through the cargo before returning. An arrangement of fans and
ducting direct the air to the cooler and below the cargo (Figure 9.8). The
cargo is stacked on gratings which allow the passage of cooled air up
through the cargo.

For small refrigerated cargo spaces or provision rooms a direct
expansion primary refrigerant system may be used (Figure 9.9). The

‘DETAIL OF DECK GRATING

Fmow
=, STANOOY
CONDENSER

Figure 9.9 Direct expansion system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 173 ---
174 Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

twin circuit arrangement for each cooler (evaporator) provides flexibility
and duplication in the event of one system failing. The back pressure
valve maintains a minimum constant pressure or temperature in the
evaporator when working a space in high-temperature conditions to
prevent under-cooling of the cargo. If one space is operating at a
low-temperature condition at the same time the back pressure valve
would be bypassed. The liquid cooler illustrated in the diagram is
necessary where an abnormal high static head has to be overcome
between the machinery and the coolers. In this vessel the liquid is
sub-cooled to prevent it flashing off before reaching the thermostatic
expansion valve.

Containers which require refrigeration present particular problems.
Where only a few are carried or the ship has no built-in arrangement for
refrigerating containers, then clip-on or integral refrigeration plants
would be provided. The clip-on or integral unit may be either air or
water cooled. In the case of air cooled units adequate ventilation has to
be supplied if they are fitted below decks. For water cooled units some
sort of cooling water arrangement must be coupled up to each unit. Also
an electrical supply is required for each type.

Vessels designed for specific refrigerated container trades have
built-in ducting systems. These can be in two forms: a horizontal finger
duct system in which up to 48 containers are fed from one cooler
situated in the wings of the ship or, alternatively, a vertical duct system in
which each stack of containers has its own duct and cooler. This type of
system is employed for standard containers having two port holes in the
wall opposite the loading doors. Air is delivered into the bottom opening
and, after passing through a plenum, rises through a floor grating over
the cargo and returns via another section of the plenum to the top port.
The connection between the duct and containers is made by couplings
which are pneumatically controlled.

Controlled atmosphere

Refrigerated cargo ships are making increased use of Controlled
Atmosphere (CA), a technique which increases the storage life of fruit
and vegetables. Oxygen and carbon dioxide levels, and relative humidity,
are independently controlled to within close tolerances within a
particular CA zone. This slows down the ripening of fruit and vegetables
during their transportation. In a CA zone oxygen levels may be as low
as from 1 to 12 per cent, carbon dioxide from 0 to 25 per cent and
relative humidity is kept within 40 to 90 per cent.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 174 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation = 175

The chamber or zone must be airtight, and any leakage of gas is
replaced by injecting the required volume into the zone. A low oxygen
alarm and sampling points within the chamber protect the cargo from
suffocation, which would occur if the oxygen level was less than 0.5 per
cent by volume.

The CA chamber will not support human life and rules exist for the
use of CA, which ensure adequate safety precautions are taken prior to
entry. Locks and alarms are fitted to CA spaces, and if entry is required
complete aeration must take place. Ventilation outlets must be safely led
out into the atmosphere, well way from air conditioning units and
accommodation.

System faults

During operation a number of particular problems can occur which will
affect the plant performance.

An overcharge or excess refrigerant in the system will be seen as a
high condenser pressure. The refrigerant should be pumped to the
condenser and the excess released from there.

Air in the system will also show as a high condenser pressure. With the
condenser liquid outlet closed the refrigerant charge should be pumped
in and cooled. Releasing the purge valve will vent off the air which will
have collected above the refrigerant.

Under-charge will show as a low compressor pressure and large
bubbles in the liquid line sightglass. A leak test should then be carried
out over the system to determine the fault and enable its rectification. A
leak detector lamp for Freon refrigerants may be of the methylated
spirit type, but more commonly uses Calor gas (butane/propane). The
Freon is drawn into the flame and the flame will change colour, going
from green to blue depending on the concentration of the gas.

When charging the system with more gas the main liquid valve should
be closed and gas introduced before the regulating valve until the system
is correctly charged. (It is possible to charge on the outlet side of the
regulating valve and is quicker, but this requires a good amount of
experience to prevent liquid carrying over and damaging the
compressor.)

Moisture in the system may change to ice and close up the regulating
valve, resulting in a drop in pressure on the evaporator side and a rise in
pressure on the condenser side. The drier should be examined and the
drying chemicals will probably require replacing. A correctly operating
regulating valve will have frosting on the outlet side but not on the inlet
side.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 175 ---
176 Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation
Air conditioning

Ships travel the world and are therefore. subject to various climatic
conditions. The crew of the ship must be provided with reasonable
conditions in which to work regardless of the weather. Temperature
alone is not a sufficient measure of conditions acceptable to the human
body. Relative humidity in conjunction with temperature more truly
determines the environment for human comfort. Relative humidity,
expressed as a percentage, is the ratio of the water vapour pressure in
the air tested, to the saturated vapour pressure of air at the same
temperature. The fact that less water can be absorbed as air is cooled and
more can be absorbed when it is heated is the major consideration in air
conditioning system design. Other factors are the nearness of heat
sources, exposure to sunlight, sources of cold and the insulation
provided around the space.

An air conditioning system aims to provide a comfortable working
environment regardless of outside conditions. Satisfactory air treatment
must involve a relatively ‘closed’ system where the air is circulated and
returned. However, some air is ‘consumed’ by humans and some
machinery so there is a requirement for renewal. Public rooms and
accommodation will operate with a reduced percentage of air renewal
since the conditioning cost of 100% renewal would be considerable.
Galleys and sanitary spaces, for instance, must have 100% renewal, but
here the air quantities and treatment costs will be much smaller. Systems
may however be designed for 100% renewal of air although not
necessarily operated in this way. Noise and vibration from equipment
used in the system should be kept to a minimum to avoid a different
kind of discomfort. Three main types of marine air conditioning system
are in general use, the single duct, the twin duct and the single duct with
reheat.

The single-duct system is widely used on cargo ships (Figure 9.10).
Several central units are used to distribute conditioned air to a number
of cabins or spaces via a single pipe or duct. In warm climates a mixture
of fresh and recirulated air is cooled and dehumidified (some water is
removed) during its passage over the refrigeration unit. In cold climates
the air mixture is warmed and humidified either by steam, hot water or
electric heating elements. The temperature and humidity of the air is
controlled automatically at the central unit. Within the conditioned
space control is by variation of the volume flow of air.

The twin-duct system provides increased flexibility and is mainly used
on passenger ships (Figure 9.11). A central unit is used with cooled
dehumidified air provided through one duct. The other duct is supplied
with cooled air that has been reheated. Each treated space is provided
with a supply from each duct which may be mixed as required at the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 176 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation — 177

Recirculated air

i

1 Mixing box

2 Fan

3 Filter

4 Cooler

5 Pressure relief valve

6 Humidifier

7 Pre-heater

8 Zone heaters

9 Re-heater

10 Plenums

11 Warmer air plenums

% Cooler air Dlenamns

- re-insulat iro ductin:

Fresh air 56 . 14 Airterminals > $

= 15 Air terminals with mixture

control

Figure 9.11 Twin-duct system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 177 ---
178 — Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation

outlet terminal. In cold climates the preheater will warm both supplies of
air, resulting in a warm and a hot supply to each space.

The ‘single duct with reheat’ system is used for vessels operating in
mainly cool climates. The central unit will cool and dehumidify or
preheat and humidify the air as required by outside conditions. In
addition, before discharge into the treated space a local reheating unit
will heat the air if required, depending upon the room thermostat
setting.

The refrigeration system used in the central unit is shown in Figure
9.12. A direct-expansion system is shown using a reciprocating

Cooler Heater

Hot gas
bypass
{ system

I) conaenser

Oil
Y separator

Compressor

Figure 9.12 Direct-expansion refrigeration system for an air cooler

compressor, sea water cooled condenser and a_ thermostatically
controlled regulating valve. The air to be cooled passes over the
evaporator or cooler. The cooling effect of the unit may need to be
reduced if there is no great demand and the hot gas bypass system
provides this facility.

Maintenance of the above systems will involve the usual checks on the
running machinery and the cleaning of filters. Air filters in the central
units are usually washable but may be disposable. The filters should be
attended to as required, depending upon the location of the ship.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 178 ---
Refrigeration, air conditioning and ventilation 179
Ventilation .

Ventilation is the provision of a supply of fresh untreated air through a
space. Natural ventilation occurs when changes in temperature or air
density cause circulation in the space. Mechanical or forced ventilation
uses fans for a positive movement of large quantities of air.

Natural ventilation is used for some small workshops and stores but is
impractical for working areas where machinery is present or a number
of people are employed.

Forced ventilation may be used in cargo spaces where the movement
of air removes moisture or avoids condensation, removes odours or
gases, etc.

The machinery space presents another area which requires ventila-
tion. As a result of its large size and the fact that large volumes of air are
consumed a treatment plant would be extremely costly to run.
Ventilation is therefore provided in sufficient quantities for machinery
air consumption and also to effect cooling. The usual distribution
arrangement is shown in Figure 9.13.

proce sme fee eeend Floor plates
Tank top

Figure 9.13 Machinery space ventilation—diagrammatic

Several axial-flow fans provide air through ducting to the various
working platforms. The hot air rises in the centre and leaves through
louvres or openings, usually in the funnel. The machinery control room,
as a separate space, may well be arranged for air conditioning with an
individual unit which draws air through trunking from the outside and
exhausts back to the atmosphere.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 179 ---
Chapter 10
Deck machinery and hull

equipment

The various items of machinery and equipment found outside of the
machinery space will now be described. These include deck machinery
such as mooring equipment, anchor handling equipment, cargo
handling equipment and hatch covers. Other items include lifeboats and
liferafts, emergency equipment, watertight doors, stabilisers and bow
thrusters. ‘

The operations of mooring, cargo handling and anchor handling all
involve controlled pulls or lifts using chain cables, wire or hemp ropes.
The drive force and control arrangements adopted will influence the
operations. Several methods are currently in use, and these will be
examined before considering the associated equipment.

Three forms of power are currently in use: steam, hydraulic and electric.
Each will be described in turn, together with its advantages and
disadvantages for particular duties or locations.

Steam

With a steam powering and control system the steam pipelines are run
along the deck to the various machines. Steam is admitted first to a
directional valve and then to the steam admission valve. Double-acting
steam engines, usually with two cylinders, are used to drive the
machinery. Additional back pressure valves are used with mooring
winches to control tension when the machine is stalled or brought to a
stop by the load. Arrangements must also be made, often associated with
the back pressure valve, to counteract the fluctuations in main steam line
pressure as a result of other users of steam.

The steam-powered system was widely used on tankers since it
presented no fire or explosion risk, but the lengths of deck pipework
and the steam engines themselves presented considerable maintenance
tasks which have generally resulted in their replacement by hydraulically
powered equipment.

180

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 180 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 181
Hydraulic systems

The open-loop circuit takes oil from the tank and pumps it into the
hydraulic motor. A control valve is positioned in parallel with the motor.
When it is open the motor is stationary; when it is throttled or closed the
motor will operate. The exhaust oil returns to the tank. This method can
provide stepless control, i.e. smooth changes in motor speed.

The live-line circuit, on the contrary, maintains a high pressure from
which the control valve draws pressurised oil to the hydraulic motor (in
series with it), as and when required.

In the closed-loop circuit the exhaust oil is returned direct to the
pump suction. Since the oil does not enter an open tank, the system is
considered closed.

Low-pressure systems use the open-loop circuit and are simple in
design as well as reliable. The equipment is, however, large, inefficient
in operation and overheats after prolonged use.

Medium-pressure systems are favoured for marine applications, using
either the open or closed circuit. Smaller installations are of the
open-loop type. Where considerable amounts of hydraulic machinery
are fitted the live-circuit, supplied by a centralised hydraulic power
system, would be most economical.

Electrical operation

Early installations used d.c. supply with resistances in series to provide
speed control (see Chapter 14). This inefficient power-wasting method
was one possibility with d.c., but a better method was the use of Ward
Leonard control. The high cost of all the equipment involved in Ward
Leonard control and its maintenance is, however, a considerable
disadvantage.

Machines operated on an a.c. supply require a means of speed control
with either pole-changing or slip-ring motors being used. Slip-ring
motors require low starting currents but waste power at less than full
speed and require regular maintenance. Pole-changing motors are of
squirrel cage construction, providing for perhaps three different speeds.
They require large starting currents, although maintenance is negligible
(see Chapter 14).

Apart from the advantages and disadvantages for each of the drive
and control methods, all electric drives have difficulty with heavy
continuous overloads. Each system has its advocates and careful design
and choice of associated equipment can provide a_ satisfactory
installation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 181 ---
182 Deck machinery and hull equipment
Mooring equipment

Winches with various arrangements of barrels are the usual mooring
equipment used on board ships. A mooring winch is shown in Figure 10.1
where the various parts can be identified. The winch barrel or drum is
used for hauling in or letting out the wires or ropes which will fasten the
ship to the shore. The warp end is used when moving the ship using
ropes or wires fastened to bollards ashore and wrapped around the warp
end of the winch.

The construction of a mooring winch will now be examined, again
with respect to Figure 10.1. The motor drive is passed through a spur

Figure 10.1 Mooring winch

gear transmission, a clutch and thus to the drum and warp end. A
substantial frame supports the assembly and a band brake is used to hold
the drum when required. The control arrangements for the drive motor
permit forward or reverse rotation together with a selection of speeds
during operation.

Modern mooring winches are arranged as automatic self-tensioning
units. The flow of the tides or changes in draught due to cargo
operations may result in tensioning or slackening of mooring wires. To
avoid constant attention to the mooring wires the automatic self-
tensioning arrangement provides for paying out (releasing) or recover-
ing wire when a pre-set tension is not present.

Anchor handling equipment

The windlass is the usual anchor handling device where one machine
may be used to handle both anchors. A more recent development,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 182 ---
i

“ ea =
3 8 EE ane.

Oy
ays MURLIET

mn UT

_——————
a:
J iil

Figure 10.2 Windlass

quauidinba yny pue Azauryseur xq

s81

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 183 ---
184 Deck machinery and hull equipment

particularly on larger vessels, is the split windlass where one machine is
used for each anchor.

One unit of a split windlass is shown in Figure 10.2. The rotating units
consist of a cable lifter with shaped snugs to grip the anchor cable, a
mooring drum for paying out or letting go of mooring wires and a warp
end for warping duties. Each of these units may be separately engaged
or disengaged by means of a dog clutch, although the warp end is often
driven in association with the mooring drum. A spur gear assembly
transmits the motor drive to the shaft where the various dog clutches
enable the power take-off. Separate band brakes are fitted to hold the
cable lifter and the mooring drum when the power is switched off.

The cable lifter unit, shown in Figure 10.2, is mounted so as to raise
and lower the cable from the spurling pipe, which is at the top and
centre of the chain or cable locker. Details of the snugs used to grip the
cable and of the band brake can be seen.

Anchor capstans are used in some installations where the cable lifter
rotates about a vertical axis. Only the cable lifter unit is located on deck,
the driving machinery being on the deck below. A warping end or barrel
may be driven by the same unit and is positioned near the cable lifter.

Cargo handling equipment

Cargo winches are used with the various derrick systems arranged for
cargo handling. The unit is rated according to the safe working load to
be lifted and usually has a double-speed provision when working at half
load.

In the cargo winch, spur reduction gearing transfers the motor drive
to the barrel shaft. A warp end may be fitted for operating the derrick
topping lift (the wire which adjusts the derrick height). Manually
operated band brakes may be fitted and the drive motor will have a
brake arranged to fail-safe, i.e. it will hold the load if power fails or the
machine is stopped.

A derrick rig, known as ‘union purchase’, is shown in Figure 10.3. One
derrick is positioned over the quayside and the other almost vertically
over the hold. Topping wires fix the height of the derricks and stays to
the deck may be used to prevent fore and aft movement. Cargo handling
wires run from two winches and join at the hook. A combination of
movements from the two winches enables lifting, transfer and lowering
of the cargo. This is only one of several possible derrick arrangements or
rigs. Although being very popular for many years, it requires
considerable crew time to set up and considerable manpower for
operation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 184 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment —-185

Samson

VA +
Uf Cargo hook
over hatch |

To winch Na

Cargo hook

Figure 10.3 Union purchase rig

Figure 10.4 General cargo crane

Cranes have replaced derricks on many modern ships. Positioned
between the holds, often on a platform which can be rotated through
360°, the deck crane provides an immediately operational unit requiring
only one man to operate it. Double gearing is a feature of most designs,
providing a higher speed at lighter loads. Various types of crane exist
for particular duties, for example a general duties crane using a hook
and a grabbing crane for use with bulk cargoes.

A general cargo crane is shown in Figure 10.4. Three separate drives
provide the principal movements: a hoisting motor for lifting the load, a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 185 ---
186 Deck machinery and hull equipment

luffing motor for raising or lowering the jib, and a slewing motor for
rotating the crane. The operator’s cab is designed to provide clear views
of all the cargo working area so that the crane operator can function
alone. The crane is usually mounted on a pedestal to offer adequate
visibility to the operator. Fer occasional heavy loads arrangements for
two cranes to work together, i.e. twinning, can be made with a single
operator using a master and slave control system in the two cranes. A
common revolving platform will be necessary for this arrangement. The
operating medium for deck crane motors may be hydraulic or electric,
utilising circuits referred to earlier.

Maintenance

All deck machinery is exposed to the most severe aspects of the
elements. Total enclosure of all working parts is usual with splash
lubrication for gearing. The various bearings on the shafts will be
greased by pressure grease points. Open gears and clutches are
lubricated with open gear compound. Particular maintenance tasks will
be associated with the type of motor drive employed.

Hatch covers

Hatch covers are used to close off the hatch opening and make it
watertight. Wooden hatch covers, consisting of beams and boards over
the opening and covered with tarpaulins, were once used but are no
longer fitted. Steel hatch covers, comprising a number of linked steel
covers, are now fitted universally. Various designs exist for particular
applications, but most offer simple and quick opening and closing,
which speed up the cargo handling operation.

A MacGregor single-pull weather-deck hatch cover is shown in Figure
10.5. The hatch covers are arranged to move on rollers along a track on
top of the hatch coaming. The individual covers are linked together by
chains and ride up and tip onto a stowage rack at the hatch end. A
hydraulic power unit, operated from a control box at the hatch end, is
used to open and close the hatch cover. It is possible to open and close
the covers with a single wire pull from a crane or winch. Watertightness
of the closed covers is achieved by pulling them down on to a
compressible jointing strip. This is done by the use of cleats which may
be hand-operated or automatically engaged as the hatch closes.

Hatch covers below the weather decks are arranged flush with the
deck, as shown in Figure 10.6. In the arrangement shown a
self-contained hydraulic power pack with reservoir pump and motor is
mounted into a pair of hatch covers. This power pack serves the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 186 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 187

linking
covers

Electrical supply

Operating controls 4

Figure 10.6 Tween-deck hatch cover

operating cylinder for the pair of covers. Control is from a nearby point
and hydraulic piping is reduced to a minimum.

Maintenance requirements for this equipment are usually minimal but
regular inspection and servicing should be undertaken. Most hatch
covers can, if necessary, be removed manually.

Stabilising systems

There are two basic stabilising systems used on ships—the fin and the
tank. A stabilising system is fitted to a ship in order to reduce the rolling

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 187 ---
188 Deck machinery and hull equipment

motion. This is achieved by providing an opposite force to that
attempting to roll the ship.

Fin stabiliser

One or more pairs of fins are fitted on a ship, one on each side, see
Figure 10.7. The size or area of the fins is governed by ship factors such
as breadth, draught, displacement, and so on, but is very small
compared with the size of the ship. The fins may be retractable, i.e.
pivoting or sliding within the ship’s form, or fixed. They act to apply a
righting moment to the ship as it is inclined by a wave or force on one
side. The angle of tilt of the fin and the resulting moment on the ship is
determined by a sensing control system. The forward speed of the ship
enables the fins to generate the thrust which results in the righting
moment.

Finbox stiffeners are
aligned with ship's
framing

Tail flap

Figure 10.7 Fin stabiliser

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 188 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 189

The operating system can be compared to that of the steering gear in
that a signal from the control unit causes a movement of the fin which,
when it reaches the desired value, is brought to rest. The fin movement
takes place as a result of a hydraulic power unit incorporating a type of
variable displacement pump.

The effectiveness of the fins as stabilisers depends upon their speed of
movement, which must be rapid from one extreme point to the other.
The fins are rectangular in shape and streamlined in section. The use of
a movable flap or a fixed and movable portion is to provide a greater
restoring moment to the ship for a slightly more complicated
mechanism.

The control system which signals the movement of the fins utilises two
gyroscopes, one which senses movements from the vertical and the other
the rolling velocity. As a result of this control system, fin movement is a
function of roll angle, roll velocity, roll acceleration and natural list.

Fin stabilisers provide accurate and effective roll stabilisation in
return for a complex installation, which in merchant vessels is usually
limited to passenger ships. It is to be noted that at low ship speeds the
stabilising power falls off, and when stationary no stabilisation is
possible.

Tank stabiliser

A tank stabiliser provides a righting or anti-rolling force as a result of
the delayed flow of fluid in a suitably positioned transverse tank. The
system operation is independent of ship speed and will work when the
ship is at rest.

Consider a mass of water in an athwartships tank. As the ship rolls the
water will be moved, but a moment or two after the ship. Thus when the
ship is finishing its roll and about to turn, the still moving water will
oppose the return roll. The water mass thus acts against the roll at each
ship movement. This athwartships tank is sometimes referred to as a
‘flume’. The system is considered passive, since the water flow is
activated by gravity.

A wing tank system arranged for controlled passive operation is
shown in Figure 10.8. The greater height of tank at the sides permits a
larger water build-up and thus a greater moment to resist the roll. The
rising fluid level must not however fill the wing tank. The air duct
between the two wing tanks contains valves which are operated by a roll
sensing device. The differential air pressure between tanks is regulated
to allow the fluid flow to be controlled and ‘phased’ for maximum roll
stabilisation.

A tank system must be specifically designed for a particular ship by
using data from model tests. The water level in the system is critical and

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 189 ---
AS

TYPICAL AIR VALVE
ARRANGEMENT ae

Figure 10.8 Air-controlled tank stabiliser

yuauidmba ny pue Asaurysew yaq 061

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 190 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 191

must be adjusted according to the ship’s loaded condition. Also there is a
free surface effect resulting from the moving water which effectively
reduces the stability of the ship. The tank system does, however, stabilise
at zero speed and is a much less complex installation than a fin stabiliser.

Watertight doors

Watertight doors are provided where an opening in a watertight
bulkhead is essential. On cargo ships with a shaft tunnel, the entrance
would have a watertight door fitted. All doors fitted below the waterline
must be of the sliding type, arranged horizontally or vertically.

A horizontal sliding watertight door is shown in Figure 10.9. The
robust frame fits into the bulkhead and provides the trackway along
which the door slides. The door is moved by a hydraulic cylinder which
may be power or manually operated. The door must be arranged for
local opening and closing as well as operation from a point above the
bulkhead .deck. The power unit situated above the bulkhead deck
provides either powered or hand operation of the door.

Watertight doors should be tested for operation by closing and
opening during fire drill. The hydraulic system should be occasionally
checked for leaks and to ensure sufficient oil is present in the system.
The bottom trackway of the door should be checked for cleanliness and
freedom from obstructing matter.

Bow thruster

The bow thruster is a propulsion device fitted to certain types of ships to
improve manceuvrability. The thrust unit consists of a propeller
mounted in an athwartships tunnel and provided with some auxiliary
drive such as an electric or hydraulic motor. During operation water is
forced through the tunnel to push the ship sideways either to port or
starboard as required. The unit is normally bridge controlled and is
most effective when the vessel is stationary.

A controllable-pitch type thruster unit is shown in Figure 10.10. A
servo motor located in the gear housing enables the propeller blade
pitch to be altered, to provide water flow in either direction. With this
arrangement any non-reversing prime mover, like a single-speed electric
motor, may be used. The prime mover need not be stopped during
manoeuvring operations since the blades can be placed at zero pitch
when no thrust is desired. The drive is obtained through a flexible drive
shaft, couplings and bevel gears. Special seals prevent any sea water
leakage into the unit. The complete assembly includes part of the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 191 ---
192 Deck machinery and hull equipment

Bridge deck

Bulkhead deck

Intermediate deck

Limit
switch

Hand
control

pump

Door stop Operating cylinder
Figure 10.9 Horizontal sliding watertight door

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 192 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 193

Driving
motor

Figure 10.10 Bow thruster

athwartships tunnel through which water is directed to provide the
thrust.

Safety equipment

A number of items will now be considered under this general heading.
They are emergency equipment for power generation and pumping,
survival equipment such as lifeboats and liferafts, and the sound signal
equipment in the form of the whistle.

Emergency equipment
Emergency equipment is arranged to operate independently of all main
power sources. It includes such items as the emergency generator and
the emergency fire pump. Both items of machinery are located remote
from the engine room and usually above the bulkhead deck, that is at the
weather deck level or above. The emergency generator is usually on one
of the accommodation decks while the emergency fire pump is often
inside the forecastle.

The emergency generator is a diesel-driven generator of sufficient
capacity to provide essential circuits such as steering, navigation lights

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 193 ---
194 Deck machinery and hull equipment

and communications. The diesel engine has its own supply system,
usually of light diesel oil for easy starting. Batteries, compressed air or
an hydraulic accumulator may be used for starting the machine. Small
machines may be air cooled but larger units are arranged usually for
water cooling with an air cooled radiator as heat exchanger in the
system. A small switchboard is located in the same compartment to
connect the supply to the various emergency services (see Chapter 14).

Modern systems are arranged to start up the emergency generator
automatically when the main power supply fails. The system should be
checked regularly and operated to ensure its availability if required. Fuel
tanks should be kept full, ample cooling water should be in the radiator
cooling system, and the starting equipment should be functional.
Batteries of course, should be fully charged or air receivers full.

The emergency fire pump is arranged to supply the ship’s fire main
when the machinery space pump is not available. One possible
arrangement, as used on large tankers, is shown diagrammatically in
Figure 10.11. A diesel engine with its own fuel supply system, starting

Diesel Engine

Discharge to Fire Main Hyd Oil Pump

Main Fire Pump

Discharge to
Main Fire
Pump Suction

Submersible
Oi
Booster Motor Driven Hyd Oil Supply
Sea Suction Pump Pump and Return

Figure 10.11 Emergency fire pump

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 194 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 195

arrangements, etc., drives at one end a main fire pump and at the other
an hydraulic oil pump. The hydraulic oil pump supplies a hydraulic
motor, located low down in the ship, which in turn operates a sea water
booster pump. The booster pump has its own sea suction and discharges
to the main pump suction. The main pump then supplies sea water to
the fire main. The booster pump arrangement is necessary because of
the considerable depth of many large modern ships.

Survival equipment

Lifesaving equipment on board ship, apart from smaller items such as
lifebuoys and lifejackets, consists of lifeboats and liferafts. Lifeboats are
rigid vessels secured into davits which enable the boat to be launched
over the ship’s side. Liferafts are inflatable vessels, usually stowed on
deck in canisters which must be thrown overboard, whereupon they are
automatically inflated.

Lifeboat accommodation for all the ship’s crew must be provided on
both sides of the ship. This is to allow for a situation when only the boats
on one side can be lowered. The boats must be more than 7.3 m long and

Figure 10.12 Lifeboat

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 195 ---
196 Deck machinery and hull equipment

carry sufficient equipment and provisions for survival for a reasonable
period (Figure 10.12). This would include oars, a boat hook, a compass,
distress rockets, first aid equipment, rations and fresh water. They must
also be partially or totally enclosed, self-righting and equipped with an
engine.

Lifeboats on cargo ships of 20 000 tons gross tonnage and above must
be capable of being launched when the ship is making headway at speeds
up to 5 knots.

A new requirement for all new ships is that a rescue boat, capable of
being launched in five minutes, must be carried. This boat is to be used
to rescue persons from the sea and also to gather together the lifeboats.

Lifeboat davits are provided as stowage for the lifeboats which can
readily be released to lower the boats without any mechanical assistance.
‘Gravity davits’, as they are called, slide down and position the boat for
lowering as soon as they are released. The davits must be able to lower
the boats when the ship is heeled to 15° on either side.

One type of gravity davit is shown in Figure 10.13. The lifeboat is held
against the cradle by ropes called ‘gripes’. Another wire, either separate
or combined with the gripes, holds the cradle in its upper position. With
the gripes and the cradle securing device free, the winch handbrake can
be released to enable the cradle to slide down and over the ship’s side. A
tricing-in pendant (a wire) bring the lifeboat close to the ship’s side to
enable it to be boarded. The bowsing lines which fasten to each end of
the lifeboat are then used to hold it in to the ship’s side, the tricing
pendant then being released. Once the crew are on board the bowsing
lines are released and the lifeboat lowered to the water. The wires which
raise or lower the boat are called ‘falls’ and the speed of descent is
restricted to 36 m/min by a centrifugal brake. The handbrake used to
lower the boat has a ‘dead man’s handle’ or weighted lever, which, if
released, will apply the brake.

Liferafts are normally provided to accommodate all of the ship’s
complement. They are usually stored in cylindrical glass-reinforced
plastic containers which are secured on chocks on the deck. Inflation
takes place automatically when the container is thrown overboard, the
container bursts open and the liferaft floats clear. A pressurised cylinder
of carbon dioxide is used to inflate the raft. One type of liferaft is shown
in Figure 10.14, where it can be seen to be a well equipped totally
enclosed arrangement. The survival equipment located in the raft is
similar to that provided in lifeboats. Liferafts must normally be boarded
from the water unless they are of a special type which is lowered, fully
inflated, by a davit; but it is not usual to fit this type on cargo vessels.
Liferafts must be stowed in such a way that they will float free and inflate
if the vessel sinks. A hydrostatic release is normally used which releases
the lashings at a predetermined depth of water.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 196 ---
Figure 10.13 Gravity davit

quourdinba jny pur ArauIyoeW yxaq

261

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 197 ---
198 Deck machinery and hull equipment

Observation

Exterior

Interior light
light

Rescue line

and quoit Topping-up/deflation

Rainwater collector valve (arch)

Pressure
Painter
line

Topping-up
deflation

Topping-up
deflation

valves
(chambers)

(emergency pack)
Inflation hose

assembly . Lifeline
Operating

Deflation

port
Stabilizing

CO, cylinder pocket

Figure 10.14 Liferaft

Whistle
International regulations require audible signals to be made by a ship in
conditions of poor visibility. The ship’s whistle is provided and arranged
to give prolonged blasts at timed intervals when operated by a hand
control.

One type of air-operated whistle is shown in Figure 10.15. The
compressed air acting on the diaphragm causes it to vibrate and the
sound waves are amplified in the horn. The control system associated
with the whistle can provide whistle operation as long as any of the
operating switches is in the ‘on’ position. Alternatively short blasts can be
given by on-off operation, since instantaneous cut-off occurs after each
blast. A more sophisticated control system incorporates timing gear
which provides a prolonged blast every two minutes, or other

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 198 ---
Deck machinery and hull equipment 199

Diaphragm |

(a) Whistle

Switch
a.c.supply

Whistle

Junction
box

Bridge

Compressed

air supply ---4

Bridge

wing

Push button | Lanyard for
(bridge) + emergency
| operation

(b) Signal control system

Figure 10.15 Whistle

arrangements as required. The whistle switches are usually on the
bridge wings and inside the bridge. The whistle is also arranged for
direct operation from a lanyard which extends from the bridge. The
compressed air supply can vary in pressure over a considerable range
without affecting the whistle operation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 199 ---
Chapter 11
Shafting and propellers

The transmission system on a ship transmits power from the engine to
the propeller. It is made up of shafts, bearings, and finally the propeller
itself. The thrust from the propeller is transferred to the ship through
the transmission system.

The different items in the system include the thrust shaft, one or more
intermediate shafts and the tailshaft. These shafts are supported by the
thrust block, intermediate bearings and the sterntube bearing. A sealing
arrangement is provided at either end of the tailshaft with the propeller
and cone completing the arrangement. These parts, their location and
purpose are shown in Figure 11.1.

Thrust block

The thrust block transfers the thrust from the propeller to the hull of
the ship. It must therefore be solidly constructed and mounted onto a
rigid seating or framework to perform its task. It may be an independent
unit or an integral part of the main propulsion engine. Both ahead and
astern thrusts must be catered for and the construction must be strong
enough to withstand normal and shock loads.

The casing of the independent thrust block is in two halves which are
joined by fitted bolts (Figure 11.2). The thrust loading is carried by
bearing pads which are arranged to pivot or tilt. The pads are mounted
in holders or carriers and faced with white metal. In the arrangement
shown the thrust pads extend threequarters of the distance around the
collar and transmit all thrust to the lower half of the casing. Other
designs employ a complete ring of pads. An oil scraper deflects the oil
lifted by the thrust collar and directs it onto the pad stops. From here it
cascades over the thrust pads and bearings. The thrust shaft is
manufactured with integral flanges for bolting to the engine or gearbox
shaft and the intermediate shafting, and a thrust collar for absorbing the
thrust.

200

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 200 ---
ee
Sterntube

ont shaft
support
and propeller {aboard

Figure 11.1 Transmission system

from above
and below

Intermediate

Intermediate or
tunnel bearings

support
shaft from below

Shaft power
—_—_——

Journal bearings
{not always fitted)

Direct drive diesel

Geared turbine
{* diesel

Main engine

suayjadoid pue 3unyeys

108

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 201 ---
l C
cc
Oil level indicator

Figure 11.2 Thrust block

en BS
WY KS N
| ast

N
Tone SAN
Half nal
om jour

ox5

603

suajjadoid pue Sunseys

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 202 ---
Shafting and propellers 203

Where the thrust shaft is an integral part of the engine, the casing is
usually fabricated in a similar manner to the engine bedplate to which it
is bolted. Pressurised lubrication from the engine lubricating oil system
is provided and most other details of construction are similar to the
independent type of thrust block.

Shaft bearings
Shaft bearings are of two types, the aftermost tunnel bearing and all
others. The aftermost tunnel bearing has a top and bottom bearing shell
because it must counteract the propeller mass and take a vertical upward
thrust at the forward end of the tailshaft. The other shaft bearings only
support the shaft weight and thus have only lower half bearing shells.
An intermediate tunnel bearing is shown in Figure 11.3. The usual
journal bush is here replaced by pivoting pads. The tilting pad is better
able to carry high overloads and retain a thick oil lubrication film.
Lubrication is from a bath in the lower half of the casing, and an oil
thrower ring dips into the oil and carries it round the shaft as it rotates.
Cooling of the bearing is by water circulating through a tube cooler in
the bottom of the casing.

SSS
N
N

y
5

¢

Y

;

i

t

y

Z
pao
Z

p
Ue Vreike

Figure 11,3 Tunnel bearing

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 203 ---
204 Shafting and propellers

Sterntube bearing

The sterntube bearing serves two important purposes. It supports the
tailshaft and a considerable proportion of the propeller weight. It also
acts as a gland to prevent the entry of sea water to the machinery space.
Early arrangements used bearing materials such as lignum vitae (a
very dense form of timber) which were lubricated by sea water. Most
modern designs use an oil lubrication arrangement for a white metal
lined sterntube bearing. One arrangement is shown in Figure 11.4.

Figure 11.4 Oil lubricated sterntube bearing

Oil is pumped to the bush through external axial grooves and passes
through holes on each side into internal axial passages. The oil leaves
from the ends of the bush and circulates back to the pump and the
cooler. One of two header tanks will provide a back pressure in the
system and a period of oil supply in the event of pump failure. A
low-level alarm will be fitted to each header tank.

Oil pressure in the lubrication system is higher than the static sea
water head to ensure that sea water cannot enter the sterntube in the
event of seal failure.

Sterntube seals

Special seals are fitted at the outboard and inboard ends of the tailshaft.
They are arranged to prevent the entry of sea water and also the loss of
lubricating oil from the stern bearing.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 204 ---
Shafting and propellers 205

Older designs, usually associated with sea water lubricated stern
bearings, made use of a conventional stuffing box and gland at the after
bulkhead. Oil-lubricated stern bearings use either lip or radial face seals
or a combination of the two.

Lip seals are shaped rings of material with a projecting lip or edge
which is held in contact with a shaft to prevent oil leakage or water entry.
A number of lip seals are usually fitted depending upon the particular
application.

Face seals use a pair of mating radial faces to seal against leakage. One
face is stationary and the other rotates. The rotating face of the after seal
is usually secured to the propeller boss. The stationary face of the
forward or inboard seal is the after bulkhead. A spring arrangement
forces the stationary and rotating faces together.

Shafting

There may be one or more sections of intermediate shafting between the
thrust shaft and the tailshaft, depending upon the machinery space
location. All shafting is manufactured from solid forged ingot steel with
integral flanged couplings. The shafting sections are joined by solid
forged steel fitted bolts.

The intermediate shafting has flanges at each end and may be
increased in diameter where it is supported by bearings.

The propeller shaft or tailshaft has a flanged face where it joins the
intermediate shafting. The other end is tapered to suit a similar taper on
the propeller boss. The tapered end will also be threaded to take a nut
which holds the propeller in place.

Propeller

The propeller consists of a boss with several blades of helicoidal form
attached to it. When rotated it ‘screws’ or thrusts its way through the
water by giving momentum to the column of water passing through it.
The thrust is transmitted along the shafting to the thrust block and
finally to the ship’s structure.

A solid fixed-pitch propeller is shown in Figure 11.5. Although
usually described as fixed, the pitch does vary with increasing radius
from the boss. The pitch at any point is fixed, however, and for
calculation purposes a mean or average value is used.

A propeller which turns clockwise when viewed from aft is considered
right-handed and most single-screw ships have right-handed propellers.
A twin-screw ship will usually have a right-handed starboard propeller
and a left-handed port propeller.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 205 ---
206 Shafting and propellers

Rake
Developed
outline
Projected
Back outline ;
Face |
« t
2
8
© 1
Cone Boss
— — Blade
sections

Figure 11.5 Solid propeller

Propeller mounting

The propeller is fitted onto a taper on the tailshaft and a key may be
inserted between the two: alternatively a keyless arrangement may be
used. A large nut is fastened and locked in place on the end of the
tailshaft: a cone is then bolted over the end of the tailshaft to provide a
smooth flow of water from the propeller.

One method of keyless propeller fitting is the oil injection system. The
propeller bore has a series of axial and circumferential grooves
machined into it. High-pressure oil is injected between the tapered
section of the tailshaft and the propeller. This reduces the friction
between the two parts and the propeller is pushed up the shaft taper by a
hydraulic jacking ring. Once the propeller is positioned the oil pressure
is released and the oil runs back, leaving the shaft and propeller securely
fastened together.

The Pilgrim Nut is a patented device which provides a predetermined
frictional grip between the propeller and its shaft. With this
arrangement the engine torque may be transmitted without loading the
key, where it is fitted. The Pilgrim Nut is, in effect, a threaded hydraulic
jack which is screwed onto the tailshaft (Figure 11.6). A steel ring
receives thrust from a hydraulically pressurised nitrile rubber tyre. This
thrust is applied to the propeller to force it onto the tapered tailshaft.
Propeller removal is achieved by reversing the Pilgrim Nut and using a
withdrawal plate which is fastened to the propeller boss by studs. When


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 206 ---
Shafting and propellers 207

Assemble

Seal Distance Hydraulic
tube connection

Withdraw

Propeller boss
Nitrile tyre Stud

Tailshaft

Figure 11.6 Pilgrim Nut operation

the tyre is pressurised the propeller is drawn off the taper. Assembly
and withdrawal are shown in Figure 11.6.

Controllable-pitch propeller

A controllable-pitch propeller is made up of a boss with separate blades
mounted into it. An internal mechanism enables the blades to be moved

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 207 ---
Figure 11.7 Controllable-pitch propeller

1 Piston rod

2 Piston

3 Blade seal

4 Blade bolt

5 Blade

6 Crank pin

7 Servo motor cylinder
8 Crank ring

9 Control valve
10 Valve rod
11 Mainshaft

12 Valve rod

13 Main pump

14 Pinion

15 Internally toothed gear ring
16 Non-return valve

17 Sliding ring

18 Sliding thrust block
19 Corner pin

20 Auxiliary servo motor
21 Pressure seal

22 Casing

80

ssaqjedoid pue Sunyeys

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 208 ---
Shafting and propellers 209

simultaneously through an arc to change the pitch angle and therefore
the pitch. A typical arrangement is shown in Figure 11.7.

When a pitch demand signal is received a spool valve is operated
which controls the supply of low-pressure oil to the auxiliary servo
motor. The auxiliary servo motor moves the sliding thrust block
assembly to position the valve rod which extends into the propeller hub.
The valve rod admits high-pressure oil into one side or the other of the
main servo motor cylinder. The cylinder movement is transferred by a
crank pin and ring to the propeller blades. The propeller blades all
rotate together until the feedback signal balances the demand signal and
the low-pressure oil to the auxiliary servo motor is cut off. To enable
emergency control of propeller pitch in the event of loss of power the
spool valves can be operated by hand. The oil pumps are shaft driven.

The control mechanism, which is usually hydraulic, passes through
the tailshaft and operation is usually from the bridge. Varying the pitch
will vary the thrust provided, and since a zero pitch position exists the
engine shaft may turn continuously. The blades may rotate to provide
astern thrust and therefore the engine does not require to be reversed.

Cavitation

Cavitation, the forming and bursting of vapour-filled cavities or bubbles,
can occur as a result of pressure variations on the back of a propeller
blade. The results are a loss of thrust, erosion of the blade surface,
vibrations in the afterbody of the ship and noise. It is usually limited to
high-speed heavily loaded propellers and is not a problem under normal
operating conditions with a well designed propeller.

Propeller maintenance

When a ship is in dry dock the opportunity should be taken to
thoroughly examine the propeller, and any repairs necessary should be
carried out by skilled dockyard staff.

A careful examination should be made around the blade edges for
signs of cracks. Even the smallest of cracks should not be ignored as they
act to increase stresses locally and can result in the loss of a blade if the
propeller receives a sharp blow. Edge cracks should be welded up with
suitable electrodes.

Bent blades, particularly at the tips, should receive attention as soon as
possible. Except for slight deformation the application of heat will be
required. This must be followed by more general heating in order to
stress relieve the area around the repair.

Surface roughness caused by slight pitting can be lightly ground out
and the area polished. More serious damage should be made good by

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 209 ---
210 Shafting and propellers

welding and subsequent heat treatment. A temporary repair for deep
pits or holes could be done with a suitable resin filler.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 210 ---
Chapter 12
Steering gear

The steering gear provides a movement of the rudder in response to a
signal from the bridge. The total system may be considered made up of
three parts, control equipment, a power unit and a transmission to the rudder
stock. The control equipment conveys a signal of desired rudder angle
from the bridge and activates the power unit and transmission system
until the desired angle is reached. The power unit provides the force,
when required and with immediate effect, to move the rudder to the
desired angle. The transmission system, the steering gear, is the means
by which the movement of the rudder is accomplished.

Certain requirements must currently be met by a ship’s steering
system. There must be two independent means of steering, although
where two identical power units are provided an auxiliary unit is not
required. The power and torque capability must be such that the rudder
can be swung from 35° one side to 35° the other side with the ship at
maximum speed, and also the time to swing from 35° one side to 30° the
other side must not exceed 28 seconds. The system must be protected
from shock loading and have pipework which is exclusive to it as well as
be constructed from approved materials. Control of the steering gear
must be provided in the steering gear compartment.

Tankers of 10000 ton gross tonnage and upwards must have two
independent steering gear control systems which are operated from the
bridge. Where one fails, changeover to the other must be immediate and
achieved from the bridge position. The steering gear itself must
comprise two independent systems where a failure of one results in an
automatic changeover to the other within 45 seconds. Any of these
failures should result in audible and visual alarms on the bridge.

Steering gears can be arranged with hydraulic control equipment
known as a ‘telemotor’, or with electrical control equipment. The power
unit may in turn be hydraulic or electrically operated. Each of these
units will be considered in turn, with the hydraulic unit pump being
considered first. A pump is required in the hydraulic system which can
immediately pump fluid in order to provide a hydraulic force that will
move the rudder. Instant response does not allow time for the pump to

211

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 211 ---
212 Steering gear

be switched on and therefore a constantly running pump is required
which pumps fluid only when required. A variable delivery pump
provides this facility.

Variable delivery pumps

A number of different designs of variable delivery pump exist. Each has
a means of altering the pump stroke so that the amount of oil displaced
will vary from zero to some designed maximum value. This is achieved
by use of a floating ring, a swash plate or a slipper pad.

The radial cylinder (Hele-Shaw) pump is shown in Figure 12.1.
Within the casing a short length of shaft drives the cylinder body which
rotates around a central valve or tube arrangement and is supported at
the ends by ball bearings. The cylinder body is connected to the central
valve arrangement by ports which lead to connections at the outer casing
for the supply and delivery of oil. A number of pistons fit in the radial
cylinders and are fastened to slippers by a gudgeon pin. The slippers fit
into a track in the circular floating ring. This ring may rotate, being
supported by ball bearings, and can also move from side to side since the
bearings are mounted in guide blocks. Two spindles which pass out of
the pump casing control the movement of the ring.

The operating principle will now be described by reference to Figure
12.2. When the circular floating ring is concentric with the central valve
arrangement the pistons have no relative reciprocating motion in their
cylinders (Figure 12.2(a)). As a result no oil is pumped and the pump,
although rotating, is not delivering any fluid. If however the circular
floating ring is pulled to the right then a relative reciprocating motion of
the pistons in their cylinders does occur (Figure 12.2(b)). The lower
piston, for instance, as it moves inwards will discharge fluid out through
the lower port in the central valve arrangement. As it continues past the
horizontal position the piston moves outwards, drawing in fluid from the
upper port. Once past the horizontal position on the opposite side, it
begins to discharge the fluid. If the circular floating ring were pushed to
the left then the suction and discharge ports would be reversed (Figure
12.2(c)).

This pump arrangement therefore provides, for a constantly rotating
unit, a no-flow condition and infinitely variable delivery in either
direction. The pump is also a positive displacement unit. Where two
pumps are fitted in a system and only one is operating, reverse operation
might occur. Non-reversing locking gear is provided as part of the
flexible coupling and is automatic in operation. When a pump is stopped
the locking gear comes into action; as the pump is started the locking
gear releases.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 212 ---
213

Steering gear

Roller (or ball) race

Guide block

Ball race
Control spindle

Floating ring
Control bridge
Driving shaft

Slippers

Z ) Quesses
Whar MeN Nit NOMA
KES ba
SS hee os
Wa alle ae
8a
es é
PER ES
ac SSE ek
SERA ERS ES
ZGEOSE OAS
=

A
B
Cc
D
E,
G
J

K
L

ZLZ

ZLZ7TA YA 1227

Figure 12.1 Hele-Shaw pump

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 213 ---
214 Steering gear

floating ring

Cylinder
body

rotation

Figure 12.2 Hele-Shaw pump—operating principle

The swash plate and slipper pad designs are both axial cylinder
pumps. The slipper pad is an improvement on the swash plate which
provides higher pressure. An arrangement of a swash plate pump is
shown in Figure 12.3. The driving shaft rotates the cylinder barrel,
swash plate and pistons. An external trunnion (short shaft) enables the
swash plate to be moved about its axis. The cylinders in the barrel are
connected to ports which extend in an arc around the fixed port plate.

When the swash plate is vertical no pumping action takes place. When
the swash plate is tilted pumping occurs, the length of stroke depending
upon the angle of tilt. Depending upon the direction of tilt the ports will
be either suction or discharge. This pump arrangement therefore offers
the same flexibility in operation as the radial piston type.

Telemotor control

Telemotor control is a hydraulic control system employing a transmitter,
a receiver, pipes and a charging unit. The transmitter, which is built into
the steering wheel console, is located on the bridge and the receiver is
mounted on the steering gear. The charging unit is located near to the
receiver and the system is charged with a non-freezing fluid.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 214 ---
pty

SN a
bad SAY == RQ

ae S :
” SZ 6 oa "7
ae = MA, LMMLdhd dd ts 2
Lp, freee 3—-——_N 1
en eeteeeeee
7 WZ yy ys KCTe v
NS“ Lp A
= Lili 4
aoe \ Vien SSS Wise"?
ING TN
Rn oasis
S 4 4 43 nm 0 130 3% 2
Figure 12.3 Swash plate pump

1 Steel ball 11 Piston 20 Retaining plate 32, 34 Bottom trunnion and cover
2 Pump body 12 Bridge piece 21 Slipper
3 Tilt box (swash plate) 13 Plunger 22 Circlip
4 Cylinder block 14 Spring 23, 24 O-rings
5 Valve plate 15 Case nuts and bolts 26 Vent plug
6 Mainshaft 16 Shaft sleeve 27 Roller bearing cap
8 Oil seal housing 17 Needle bearing 28 Control lever
9 Gland housing 18 Roller journal 29 Oil seal

10 Retracting plate 19 Oil seal 30 Top trunnion and cover

zea Buuaag

SI6

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 215 ---
216 Steering gear

The telemotor system is shown in Figure 12.4. Two rams are present
in the transmitter which move in opposite directions as the steering
wheel is turned. The fluid is therefore pumped down one pipe line and
drawn in from the other. The pumped fluid passes through piping to
the receiver and forces the telemotor cylinder unit to move. The suction
of fluid from the opposite cylinder enables this movement to take place.
The cylinder unit has a control spindle connected to it by a pin. This
control spindle operates the slipper ring or swash plate of the variable
delivery pump. If the changeover pin is removed from the cylinder unit
and inserted in the local handwheel drive then manual control of the

Rudder indicator
Air valves

King-spoke 1

Pressure gauge

Internal spurwheel shut-off valves

ets
7 Change-over

Replenishing
tank lever at
Bs "hand-hydraulic’
Bypass shut-off cock ; position

Air valves
Supercharging chamber.
Automatic bypass and Valves closed

supercharging valve -
Bypass valves open Hand operated
circuit valve

handwheel
' Telemotor Air valves
cylinders

(— Local control

Pipes led to

pumping unit
SEES

Duplex receiver

Figure 12.4 Telemotor control system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 216 ---
Steering gear 217

steering gear is possible. Stops are fitted on the receiver to limit
movement to the maximum rudder angle required. The charging unit
consists of a tank, a pump, and shut-off cocks for each and is fitted in the
main piping between the transmitter and receiver.

In the transmitter a replenishing tank surrounds the rams, ensuring
that air cannot enter the system. A bypass between the two cylinders
opens as the wheel passes midships. Also at mid position the
supercharging unit provides a pressure in the system which ensures
rapid response of the system to a movement of the wheel. This
supercharging unit also draws in replenishing fluid if required in the
system, and provides a relief valve arrangement if the pressure is too
high. Pressure gauges are connected to each main pipeline and air vent
cocks are also provided.

In normal operation the working pressure of about 20 to 30 bar, or
the manufacturer’s given figure, should not be exceeded. The wheel
should not be forced beyond the ‘hard over’ position as this will strain
the gear. The replenishing tank should be checked regularly and any
lubrication points should receive attention. Any leaking or damaged
equipment must be repaired or replaced as soon as possible. The system
should be regularly checked for pressure tightness. The rudder
response to wheel movement should be checked and if sluggish or slow
then air venting undertaken. If, after long service, air venting does not
remove sluggishness, it may be necessary to recharge the system with
new fluid.

Wheel

Oil bath box

Control
motor

To pump
control rod

to tiller

Detent
pin

Flexible
coupling

Mains

Local
supply

control
handwheel

Figure 12.5(a) Control box


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 217 ---
Figure 12.5(6) Arrangement of control box

yead Buuiz21g «1,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 218 ---
Steering gear 219
Electrical control

The electrical remote control system is commonly used in modern
installations since it uses a small control unit as transmitter on the bridge
and is simple and reliable in operation.

The control box assembly, which is mounted on the steering gear, is
shown in Figure 12.5 (a) and (b). Movement of the bridge transmitter
results in electrical imbalance and current flow to the motor. The motor
drives, through a flexible coupling, a screw shaft, causing it to turn. A
screw block on the shaft is moved and this in turn moves the floating
lever to which a control rod is attached. The control rod operates the
slipper ring or swash plate of the variable delivery pump. A cut-off lever
connected to the moving tiller will bring the floating lever pivot and the
lever into line at right angles to the screw shaft axis. At this point the
rudder angle will match the bridge lever angle and the pumping action
will stop. The rotating screw shaft will have corrected the electrical
imbalance and the motor will stop. For local manual control, the
electrical.control is switched off and a small handwheel is connected to
the screw shaft. A detent pin holds the handwheel assembly clear when
not in use. Rotation of the handwheel will move the floating lever and
bring about rudder movement as already described.

Power units

Two types of hydraulically powered transmission units or steering gear
are in common use, the ram and the rotary vane.

Ram type

Two particular variations, depending upon torque requirements, are
possible the two-ram and the four-ram. A two-ram steering gear is shown
in Figure 12.6.

The rams acting in hydraulic cylinders operate the tiller by means of a
swivel crosshead carried in a fork of the rams. A variable delivery pump
is mounted on each cylinder and the slipper ring is linked by rods to the
control spindle of the telemotor receiver. The variable delivery pump is
piped to each cylinder to enable suction or discharge from either. A
replenishing tank is mounted nearby and arranged with non-return
suction valves which automatically provide make-up fluid to the pumps.
A bypass valve is combined with spring-loaded shock valves which open
in the event of a very heavy sea forcing the rudder over. In moving over,
the pump is actuated and the steering gear will return the rudder to its
original position once the heavy sea has passed. A spring-loaded return

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 219 ---
220 Steering gear

Replenishing
tank

Figure 12.6(a) Diagrammatic arrangement of two-ram steering gear (additional items for
four-ram system shown dotted)

linkage on the tiller will prevent damage to the control gear during a
shock movement.

During normal operation one pump will be running. If a faster
Tesponse is required, for instance in confined waters, both pumps may
be in use. The pumps will be in the no-delivery state until a rudder
movement is required by a signal from the bridge telemotor transmitter.
The telemotor receiver cylinder will then move: this will result in a
movement of the floating lever which will move the floating ring or
slipper pad of the pump, causing a pumping action. Fluid will be drawn
from one cylinder and pumped to the other, thus turning the tiller and
the rudder. A return linkage or hunting gear mounted on the tiller will
reposition the floating lever so that no pumping occurs when the
required rudder angle is reached.

A four-ram steering gear is shown in Figure 12.7. The basic principles
of operation are similar to the two-ram gear except that the pump will
draw from two diagonally opposite cylinders and discharge to the other
two. The four-ram arrangement provides greater torque and the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 220 ---
Steering gear 221

Pump isolating valves

\
off holding down bolts +
\

NN, Cylinder isolating valves

Electric rudder
indicator

for gyro control and

telemotor receiver Local control

Figure 12.6(b) Actual arrangement of two-ram steering gear

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 221 ---
Typical elevation of
trunnion-type tiller

Crosshead

Cylinder

ire! — We
ip Taal CK
gear without rudder carrier

Figure 12.7 Four-ram steering gear—actual arrangement

rad

4eva83 Suuaaig

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 222 ---
Steering gear 223

flexibility of different arrangements in the event of component failure.
Either pump can be used with all cylinders or with either the two port or
two starboard cylinders. Various valves must be open or closed to provide
these arrangements.

The use of a control valve block incorporating rudder shock relief
valves, pump isolating valves, ram isolating and bypass valves, offers
greater flexibility with a four-ram steering gear. In normal operation
one pump can operate all cylinders. In an emergency situation the
motor or a pair of hand pumps could be used to operate two port rams,
two starboard rams, two forward rams or two after rams.

The crosshead arrangement on the four-ram type steering gear
described incorporates what is known as the ‘Rapson Slide’. This
provides a mechanical advantage which increases with the angle turned
through. The crosshead arrangement may use either a forked tiller or a
round arm tiller (Figure 12.8). The round arm tiller has a centre
crosshead which is free to slide along the tiller. Each pair of rams is
joined so as to form a double bearing in which the trunnion arms of the
crosshead. are mounted. The straight line movement of the rams is thus
converted into an angular tiller movement. In the forked tiller
arrangement the ram movement is transferred to the tiller through
swivel blocks.

To charge the system with fluid it is first necessary to fill each cylinder
then replace the filling plugs and close the air cocks. The cylinder bypass
valves should be opened and the replenishing tanks filled. The air vents
on the pumps should be opened until oil discharges free of air, the
pumps set to pump and then turned by hand, releasing air at the
appropriate pair of cylinders and pumping into each pair of cylinders in

Trunnion .
Centre arm pnivel
Ram crosshead Tiller Ram Ram a
Ram arm : aja /
Swivel
block
Round arm
tiller
(a) Round arm tiller (b) Forked tiller

Figure 12.8 Crosshead arrangements

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 223 ---
224 Steering gear

turn using the hand control mechanism. The motor should then be
started up and, using the local hand control, operation of the steering
gear checked. Air should again be released from the pressurised
cylinders and the pumps through the appropriate vents.

During normal operation the steering gear should be made to move at
least once every two hours to ensure self lubrication of the moving parts.
No valves in the system, except bypass and air vent, should be closed.
The replenishing tank level should be regularly checked and, if low,
refilled and the source of leakage found. When not in use, that is, in
port, the steering motors should be switched off. Also the couplings of
the motors should be turned by hand to check that the pump is moving
freely. If there is any stiffness the pump should be overhauled. As with
any hydraulic system cleanliness is essential when overhauling equip-
ment and only linen cleaning cloths should be used.

Rotary vane type

With this type of steering gear a vaned rotor is securely fastened onto
the rudder stock (Figure 12.9). The rotor is able to move in a housing
which is solidly attached to the ship’s structure. Chambers are formed
between the vanes on the rotor and the vanes in the housing. These
chambers will vary in size as the rotor moves and can be pressurised
since sealing strips are fitted on the moving faces. The chambers either
side of the moving vane are connected to separate pipe systems or
manifolds. Thus by supplying hydraulic fluid to all the chambers to the
left of the moving vane and drawing fluid from all the chambers on the
right, the rudder stock can be made to turn anti-clockwise. Clockwise
movement will occur if pressure and suction supplies are reversed.
Three vanes are usual and permit an angular movement of 70°: the
vanes also act as stops limiting rudder movement. The hydraulic fluid is
supplied by a variable delivery pump and control will be electrical, as
described earlier. A relief valve is fitted in the system to prevent
overpressure and allow for shock loading of the rudder.

All-electric steering

Steering gears which comprise electric control, electric power unit and
electrical transmission, are of two types, the Ward—Leonard system and
the Direct Single Motor system. Both types have a geared-down motor
drive via a pinion to a toothed quadrant.

A Ward—Leonard arrangement is shown diagrammatically in Figure
12.10. A continuously running motor-generator set has a directly
coupled exciter to provide the field current of the generator. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 224 ---
Steering gear

Actual

)

‘
1 TAS
SSSI IT IIIT TT law

ne

i i
I

8 4
a é i Hep ee
3 é 2 aman) ab i
ac =z ' fae

Diagrammatic

~.

\
i!
|;

2
3
3
3
«

<
£

TINg §

=

Figure 12.9(a) Rotary vane s'

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 225 ---
' . Position of key
Indicator strip in rudderstock

and pointer

Stop valve

- normally open

Oil Levelling pipe

Oil reservoir

Power unit Figure 12.9(b) Rotary vane steering gear. Actual arrangement

983

3ea8 Buriaag

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 226 ---
n
a
I

Steering gear

exciter field is part of a control circuit, although in some circuits control
is directly to the field current of the generator with the exciter omitted.
When the control system is balanced there is no exciter field, no exciter
output and no generator output, although it is continuously running.
The main motor which drives the rudder has no input and thus is
stationary. When the wheel on the bridge is turned, and the rheostat
contact moved, the control system is unbalanced and a voltage occurs in
the exciter field, the exciter, and the generator field. The generator then
produces power which turns the rudder motor and hence the rudder.
As the rudder moves it returns the rudder rheostat contact to the same
position as the bridge rheostat, bringing the system into balance and
stopping all current flow.

Bridge rheostat

Starter Generator

Limit

switch switch

Rudder
rheostat

Series
field

Figure 12.10 Ward—Leonard steering gear

In the single motor system the motor which drives the rudder is
supplied directly from the ship’s mains through a contactor type starter.
Reversing contacts are also fitted to enable port or starboard
movements. The motor runs at full speed until stopped by the control
system, so a braking system is necessary to bring the rudder to a stop
quickly and at the desired position.

The usual electrical maintenance work will be necessary on this
equipment in order to ensure satisfactory operation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 227 ---
228 Steering gear
Twin system steering gears

To meet the automatic changeover within the 45 seconds required for
tankers of 10000 ton gross tonnage and above, a number of designs are
available. Two will be described, one for a ram type steering gear and
one for a rotary vane type steering gear. In each case two independent
systems provide the power source to move the tiller, the failure of one
resulting in a changeover to the other. The changeover is automatic and
is achieved within 45 seconds.

The ram type steering gear arrangement is shown diagrammatically in
Figure 12.11. A simple automatic device monitors the quantity of oil in
the circuit. Where a failure occurs in one of the systems it is located and

Proximity switch ’A”

Proximity switch ‘B’

operating Valve operating oi)

Spool valve
position when
pump operating
(for anticlockwise
tiller movement)

Relief
valve

Figure 12.11 Ram type twin circuit system—pump | running circuit 2 leaking

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 228 ---
Steering gear 229

that circuit is isolated. The other system provides uninterrupted steering
and alarms are sounded and displayed.

Consider pump | in operation and pump 2 placed on automatic
reserve by the selector switch. If a leak develops in circuit 2 the float
chamber oil level will fall and proximity switch A on the monitor will be
activated to close the solenoid valve 2 which isolates circuit 2 and
bypasses the cylinders in that circuit. An alarm will also be given. If the
leak is in circuit | however, the float chamber oil level will fall further
until proximity switch B is activated. This will cut off the power supply to
motor I and solenoid valve 1 and connect the supply to motor 2 and
solenoid valve 2, thus isolating circuit 1. If pump 2 were running and
pump | in reserve, a similar changeover would occur. While a two
cylinder system has been described this system will operate equally well
with four double acting cylinders.

An arrangement based on a rotary vane type steering gear is shown in
Figure 12.12. This system involves the use of only one actuator but it is
directly fitted to a single tiller and rudderstock and therefore complete
duplication of the system does not occur anyway. Self closing lock valves
are provided in the two independent hydraulic circuits which operate

. - - Ud - - -
Telemotor Telemotor
transmitter Steering transmitter
j wheel ‘

Stop/start Stop/start
for pump for pump

Safety or
relief valve

| Self closing

Self closing
lock valve

lock valve

Expansion Expansion
tank tank

Low level
alarm

Low level
alarm

Figure 12.12 Rotary-vane twin circuit system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 229 ---
230 Steering gear

the actuator. The self closing valves are fitted on the inlet and outlet
ports of the actuator and open under oil pressure against the action of a
spring. Where an oil pressure loss occurs in one circuit the valves will
immediately close under the action of their springs. A low tank level
alarm will sound and the other pump can be started. This pump will
build up pressure, open the valves on its circuit and the steering gear can
immediately operate.

Steering gear testing

Prior to a ship’s departure from any port the steering gear should be
tested to ensure satisfactory operation. These tests should include:

1. Operation of the main steering gear.

2. Operation of the auxiliary steering gear or use of the second pump
which acts as the auxiliary.

3. Operation of the remote control (telemotor) system or systems from
the main bridge steering positions.

4. Operation of the steering gear using the emergency power supply.

5. The rudder angle indicator reading with respect to the actual rudder
angle should be checked.

6. The alarms fitted to the remote control system and the steering gear
power units should be checked for correct operation.

During these tests the rudder should be moved through its full travel
in both directions and the various equipment items, linkages, etc.,
visually inspected for damage or wear. The communication system
between the bridge and the steering gear compartment should also be
operated.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 230 ---
Chapter 13
Fire fighting and safety

Fire is a constant hazard at sea. It results in more total losses of ships than
any other form of casualty. Almost all fires are the result of negligence
or carelessness.

Combustion occurs when the gases or vapours given off by a substance
are ignited: it is the gas given off that burns, not the substance. The
temperature of the substance at which it gives off enough gas to
continue burning is known as the ‘flash point’.

Fire is the result of a combination of three factors:

1. A substance that will burn.
2. An ignition source.
3. A supply of oxygen, usually from the air.

These three factors are often considered as the sides of the fire triangle.
Removing any one or more of these sides will break the triangle and
result in the fire being put out. The complete absence of one of the three
will ensure that a fire never starts.

Fires are classified according to the types of material which are acting
as fuel. These classifications are also used for extinguishers and it is
essential to use the correct classification of extinguisher for a fire, to
avoid spreading the fire or creating additional hazards. The classifica-
tions use the letters A, B, C, D and E.

Class A Fires burning wood, glass fibre, upholstery and furnishings.

Class B_ Fires burning liquids such as lubricating oil and fuels.

Class C Fires burning gas fuels such as liquefied petroleum gas.

Class D Fires burning combustible metals such as magnesium and
aluminium.

Class E Fires burning any of the above materials together with high
voltage electricity.

Many fire extinguishers will have multiple classifications such as A, B
and C.

231

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 231 ---
232 Fire fighting and safety

Fire fighting at sea may be considered in three distinct stages,
detection—locating the fire; alarm—informing the rest of the ship; and
control—bringing to bear the means of extinguishing the fire.

Detection

The use of fire detectors is increasing, particularly with the tendency to
reduced manning and unmanned machinery spaces. A fire, if detected
quickly, can be fought and brought under control with a minimum of
damage. The main function of a fire detector is therefore to detect a fire
as quickly as possible; it must also be reliable and require a minimum of
attention. An important requirement is that it is not set off by any of the
normal occurrences in the protected space, that is it must be
appropriately sensitive to its surroundings. Three phenomena associ-
ated with fire are used to provide alarms: these are smoke, flames and heat.

The smoke detector makes use of two ionisation chambers, one open
to the atmosphere and one closed (Figure 13.1). The fine particles or
aerosols given off by a fire alter the resistance in the open ionisation
chamber, resulting in the operation of a cold cathode gas-filled valve.
The alarm sounds on the operation of the valve to give warning of a fire.
Smoke detectors are used in machinery spaces, accommodation areas
and cargo holds.

Flames, as opposed to smoke, are often the main result of gas and
liquid fires and flame detectors are used to protect against such hazards.
Flames give off ultra-violet and infra-red radiation and detectors are
available to respond to either. An infra-red flame detector is shown in
Figure 13.2. Flame detectors are used near to fuel handling equipment
in the machinery spaces and also at boiler fronts.

$220 9.0

%

iW

a

“SE open
of tomganon
CHAMBER

Figure 13.1 Smoke detector


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 232 ---
Fire fighting and safety 233

PLUG CoMNECTION
ett

Bim Dia

sa Ge

merggnannc
caeon

encouencr
aera

BICONE CHL

ran neo.

Figure 13.2 Infra-red flame detector

Heat detectors can use any of a number of principles of operation,
such as liquid expansion, low melting point material or bimetallic strips.
The most usual detector nowadays operates on either a set temperature
rise or a rate of temperature rise being exceeded. Thus an increase in
temperature occurring quickly could set off the alarm before the set
temperature was reached. The relative movement of two coiled
bimetallic thermostats, one exposed and one shielded, acts as the
detecting element (Figure 13.3). Heat detectors are used in places such
as the galley and laundry where other types of detector would give off
false alarms.

Bimm Dia

usm coNmECTION 8 1

|
arctecton 9007 | | eer
;

COMED THERMOSTATE

Figure 13.3 Heat detector

Alarm

Associated with fire detectors is the electric circuit to ring an alarm bell.
This bell will usually sound in the machinery space, if the fire occurs
there, and also on the bridge. Fires in other spaces will result in alarm
bells sounding on the bridge. Any fire discovered in its early stages will
require the finder to give the alarm and or make the decision to deal
with it himself if he can. Giving the alarm can take many forms such as

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 233 ---
234 ~—sFire fighting and safety

shouting ‘Fire’, banging on bulkheads or any action necessary to attract
attention. It is necessary to give an alarm in order to concentrate
resources and effort quickly onto the fire, even if the fire must be left to
burn for a short time unchecked.

Control

Two basically different types of equipment are available on board ship
for the control of fires. These are small portable extinguishers and large
fixed installations. The small portable extinguishers are for small fires
which, by prompt on-the-spot action, can be rapidly extinguished. The
fixed installation is used when the fire cannot be fought or restrained by
portable equipment or there is perhaps a greater danger if associated
areas were to be set on fire. The use of fixed installations may require
evacuation of the area containing the fire which, if it is the machinery
space, means the loss of effective control of the ship. Various types of
both portable and fixed fire fighting equipment are available.

Fire fighting equipment
Portable extinguishers

There are four principal types of portable extinguisher usually found on
board ship. These are the soda-acid, foam, dry powder and carbon dioxide
extinguishers.

Soda-acid extinguisher

The container of this extinguisher holds a sodium bicarbonate solution.
The screw-on cap contains a plunger mechanism covered by a safety
guard. Below the plunger is a glass phial containing sulphuric acid
(Figure 13.4). When the plunger is struck the glass phial is broken and
the acid and sodium bicarbonate mix. The resulting chemical reaction
produces carbon dioxide gas which pressurises the space above the
liquid forcing it out through the internal pipe to the nozzle. This
extinguisher is used for Class A fires and will be found in
accommodation areas.

Foam extinguisher—chemical

The main container is filled with sodium bicarbonate solution and a long
inner polythene container is filled with aluminium sulphate (Figure
13.5(a)). The inner container is sealed by a cap held in place by a
plunger. When the plunger is unlocked by turning it, the cap is released.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 234 ---
Fire fighting and safety 235

Nozzle

Internal pipe

Figure 13.4 Soda-acid extinguisher

The extinguisher is then inverted for the two liquids to mix. Carbon
dioxide is produced by the reaction which pressurises the container and
forces out the foam.

Foam extinguisher—mechanical

The outer container in this case is filled with water. The central
container holds a carbon dioxide charge and a foam solution (Figure
13.5(b)). A plunger mechanism with a safety guard is located above the
central container. When the plunger is depressed the carbon dioxide is
released and the foam solution and water mix. They are then forced out
through a special nozzle which creates the mechanical foam. This
extinguisher has an internal pipe and is operated upright.

Foam extinguishers are used on Class B fires and will be located in the
vicinity of flammable liquids.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 235 ---
Steel container

Figure 13.5(a) Foam fire extinguishers—chemical foam

Strike knob ———_ fans _ Safety guard

Piercer
Seal
Pressure charge
Carbon dioxide
pressure container
Wet water
concentrate in

PVC (poly—
vinyichloride) bag

Figure 13.5(b) Foam fire extinguishers—mechanical foam

98S

Mages pue Suny8y amy

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 236 ---
Fire fighting and safety 237
Carbon dioxide extinguisher
A very strong container is used to store liquid carbon dioxide under
pressure (Figure 13.6). A central tube provides the outlet passage for the
carbon dioxide which is released either by a plunger bursting a disc or a
valve operated by a trigger. The liquid changes to a gas as it leaves the
extinguisher and passes through a swivel pipe or hose to a discharge
horn.

Carbon dioxide extinguishers are mainly used on Class B and C fires
and will be found in the machinery space, particularly near electrical

~<«—_— Strike knob

Safety clip—_—_ ,

Piercer

Seal

Carbon dioxide (vapour)

(pressure —p~
charge)

Carbon dioxide (1iquid)

<_a—_—————— Discharge hose
Diptube

__— Handle

Trigger control

Nozzle

Figure 13.6 Carbon dioxide extinguisher

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 237 ---
238 Fire fighting and safety

equipment. The carbon dioxide extinguisher is not permitted in the
accommodation since, in a confined space, it could be lethal.

Dry powder extinguishers

The outer container contains sodium bicarbonate powder. A capsule of
carbon dioxide gas is located beneath a plunger mechanism in the
central cap (Figure 13.7). On depressing the plunger the carbon dioxide
gas forces the powder up a discharge tube and out of the discharge
nozzle.

The dry powder extinguisher can be used on all classes of fire but it
has no cooling effect. It is usually located near electrical equipment in
the machinery space and elsewhere on the ship.

Maintenance and testing

All portable extinguishers are pressure vessels and must therefore be
regularly checked.

The soda-acid and foam extinguisher containers are initially tested to
25 bar for five minutes and thereafter at four-yearly intervals to 20 bar.

Safety
cup

Phial of
carbon
dioxide
Hose

dioxide _ oF
injector
tube

Internal
tube

Outer

container Nozzle

Figure 13.7 Dry powder extinguisher

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 238 ---
Fire fighting and safety 239

The carbon dioxide extinguisher is tested to 207 bar initially every 10
years and after two such tests, every five years. The dry powder
extinguisher is tested to 35 bar once every four years.

Most extinguishers should be tested by discharge over a period of one
to five years, depending on the extinguisher type, e.g. soda-acid and dry
powder types 20% discharged per year, foam types 50% discharged per
year. Carbon dioxide extinguishers should be weighed every six months
to check for leakage.

Where practicable the operating mechanisms of portable extin-
guishers should be examined every three months.

Any plunger should be checked for free movement, vent holes should
be clear and cap threads lightly greased. Most extinguishers with
screw-on caps have a number of holes in the threaded region. These are
provided to release pressure before the cap is taken off: they should be
checked to be clear.

Fixed installations

A variety of different fixed fire fighting installations exist, some of
which are specifically designed for certain types of ship. A selection of
the more general installations will now be outlined.

Fire main

A sea water supply system to fire hydrants is fitted to every ship (Figure
13.8). Several pumps in the engine room will be arranged to supply the
system, their number and capacity being dictated by legislation
(Department of Transport for UK registered vessels). An emergency fire
pump will also be located remote from the machinery space and with
independent means of power.

Forecastle deck

Accommodation hydrant

Isolating

deck hydrants Hes Hydraulic
pump
roo st ge PF ies engine --} ——— — — —
deck 7
hydrant /

Dek ff ----7
hydrant

Emergency
fire pump Fore /
peak
Booster pump
hydrautic
motor
Booster
a pump
4

‘Sea water ~ ‘Sea water
suction suction

Figure 13.8 Fire main

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 239 ---
240 Fire fighting and safety

A system of hydrant outlets, each with an isolating valve, is located
around the ship, and hoses with appropriate snap-in connectors are
strategically located together with nozzles. These nozzles are usually of
the jet/spray type providing either type of discharge as required. All the
working areas of the ship are thus covered, and a constant supply of sea
water can be brought to bear at any point to fight a fire.

While sea water is best used as a cooling agent in fighting Class A fires
it is possible, if all else fails, to use it to fight Class B fires. The jet/spray
nozzle would be adjusted to provide a fine water spray which could be
played over the fire to cool it without spreading.

An international shore connection is always carried on board ship.
This is a standard size flange which is fitted with a coupling suitable for
the ship’s hoses. The flange is slotted in order to fit any shore-side fire
main and enable water to be brought on board a ship lying alongside.

Automatic water spray

The automatic spray or sprinker system provides a network of sprinkler
heads throughout the protected spaces. This system may be used in
accommodation areas, and in machinery spaces with certain variations in
the equipment used and the method of operation.

The accommodation areas are fitted with sprinkler heads which both
detect and extinguish fires. The sprinkler head is closed by a quartzoid
bulb which contains a liquid that expands considerably on heating
(Figure 13.9). When excessively heated the liquid expands, shatters the
bulb and water will issue from the sprinkler head. A deflector plate on
the sprinkler head causes the water to spray out over a large area.

The water is supplied initially from a tank pressurised by compressed
air (Figure 13.10(a)). Once the tank pressure falls, as a sprinkler issues
water, a salt water pump cuts in automatically to maintain the water
supply as long as is necessary. The system is initially charged with fresh
water to reduce corrosion effects.

Figure 13.9 Sprinkler head

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 240 ---
Fire fighting and safety 241

Accommodation Machinery
| space

Sprinklers

Compressed
air supply
Test valve D4

Sprayers

{a} Sprinkler system

Accommodation +—+-——-® Machinery (b) Sprayer system
space

Figure 13.10 Automatic water spray systems, (a) sprinkler system; (b) sprayer system

The complete installation is divided into several sections, each containing
about 150 to 200 sprinklers and having an alarm valve. When one or
more sprinklers operate water flows through the section valve and
sounds an alarm and also provides a visual display identifying the section
containing the fire.

In the machinery space the sprinkler heads are known as ‘sprayers’
and have no quartzoid bulb. Also the section valves are manually
operated to supply water to the sprayers (Figure 13.10(b)). The system is
pressurised by compressed air with a salt water pump arranged to cut in
automatically if the pressure drops. The accommodation and machinery
space systems may be combined by a valve which is normally kept locked
shut.

The system should be regularly checked by creating fault conditions at
the various section control valves by opening a test valve, and checking
for audible and visual alarms.

Water mist (fog)

Water mist (fog) sprinklers are being used as an alternative to, the now
banned, Halon fire suppression systems. The mist system delivers very
small water particles, which are able to remain suspended in the air. The
water particles are evaporated by the heat of the fire and the expanding
vapour displaces oxygen. The combined cooling and oxygen starvation
effects quickly extinguishes a fire. Less water is used than with sprinkler

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 241 ---
242 Fire fighting and safety

systems and the mist has proved effective against liquid fuel fires, making
it suitable for use in machinery spaces.

Research is continuing, in particular as to the effectiveness of mist in
a large machinery space. Water mist is accepted as a fire extinguishing
agent, with respect to SOLAS fire protection requirements.

Foam systems

Foam spreading systems are designed to suit the particular ship’s
requirements with regard to quantity of foam, areas to be protected, etc.
Mechanical foam is the usual substance used, being produced by mixing
foam making liquid with large quantities of water. Violent agitation of
the mixture in air creates air bubbles in the foam.

An automatic foam induction system is shown in Figure 13.11. The
automatic inductor unit ensures the correct mixing of water and foam
compound which is then pumped as the foam making solution to the
hydrants for use. The foam compound tank is sealed to protect the
contents from deterioration and has linked compound supply and air
vent valves. To operate the system these two linked valves are opened
and the fire pump started. Foam mixing is carefully metered by the
automatic inductor unit. The fire pump and compound tank must be
located outside the protected space.

High-expansion foam systems are also available where a foam
generator produces, from foam concentrate and sea water, a thousand

Deck main

Cinked ai air stop valve
aves Machinery space
Flushing valve main stop valve
b Air {normally shut)

hydrants

Figure 13.11 Foam induction system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 242 ---
Fire fighting and safety 243,

times the quantity of foam. The generator blows air through a net
sprayed with foam concentrate and water. The vastly expanded foam is
then ducted away to the space to be protected. The foam is an insulator
and an absorber of radiant heat; it also excludes oxygen from the fire.

Carbon dioxide flooding

A carbon dioxide flooding system is used to displace the oxygen in the
protected space and thus extinguish the fire. The carbon dioxide is
stored as a liquid under pressure in cylinders.

The volume of space to be protected determines the number of
cylinders required. A common battery of cylinders may be used to
protect both cargo holds and machinery space.

The cargo space system is normally arranged for smoke detection,
alarm and carbon dioxide flooding (Figure 13.12).

Small air sampling pipes from the individual cargo holds are led into a
cabinet on the bridge. Air is drawn from each hold by a small fan and
each pipe is identified for its particular hold. If smoke is drawn into the
cabinet from one of the holds it will set off an alarm. The smoke is also
passed into the wheelhouse where it can be detected by personnel on
watch.

The location of the fire can be identified in the cabinet and the hold
distribution valve below the cabinet is operated. This valve shuts off the
sampling pipe from the cabinet and opens it to the carbon dioxide main
leading from the cylinder battery. A chart will indicate the number of

Fan motor box

Wheethouse t
Diverting valve jouse top

CO, room

|_-Smoke detection cabinet
in wheelhouse

oo Low pressure

suction lines

High pressure CO.
suction lines

mt room

CO, nozzles in engine room

Figure 13.12 Carbon dioxide detection and flooding system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 243 ---
244 Fire fighting and safety

cylinders of gas to be released into the space and this is done by a hand
operated lever.

The machinery space system is designed to quickly discharge the
complete battery of cylinders. Before the gas is released the space must
be clear of personnel and sealed against entry or exhausting of air.

The discharge valve is located in a locked cabinet, with the key in a
glass case nearby. Opening the cabinet sounds an alarm to warn
personnel of the imminent discharge of the gas. The discharge valve is
opened and an operating lever pulled.

The operating lever opens two gas bottles which pressurise a gang
release cylinder that, in turn, moves an operating cable to open all the
bottles in the battery. The carbon dioxide gas then quickly floods the
machinery space, filling it to 30% of its volume in two minutes or less.

The air sampling system can be checked when the holds are empty by
using a smoking rag beneath a sampling point. Flow indicators, usually
small propellers, are fitted at the outlet points of the smoke detecting
pipes as a visual check and an assurance that the pipes are clear. To
check for leakage the gas cylinders can be weighed or have their liquid
levels measured by a special unit.

Inert gas

Inert gases are those which do not support combustion and are largely
nitrogen and carbon dioxide. Large quantities suitable for fire
extinguishing can be obtained by burning fuel in carefully measured
amounts or by cleaning the exhaust gases from a boiler.

Oil filter-pilot burner
Pressure gauge

Motor driven oil pump
—,

Oil
inlet

Main burner

Oi! filter yn Pressure controllers

inert gas
outlet
Cooling water
temperature indicator

Moisture separator

‘Combustion chamber

Air
filter O
Water
inlet

Figure 13.13 Inert gas generator

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 244 ---
Fire fighting and safety 245

Inert gas generator

The inert gas generator (Figure 13.13) burns fuel in designed quantities
to produce perfect combustion. This provides an exhaust gas which is
largely nitrogen and carbon dioxide with a very small oxygen content.
The exhaust gases pass to a cooling and washing chamber to remove
sulphur and excess carbon. The washed or scrubbed exhaust gas is now
inert and passes to a distribution system for fire extinguishing. The
complete unit is arranged to be independently operated in order to
supply inert gas for as long as the fuel supply lasts.

Funnel gas inerting

A system much used on tankers where boiler exhaust gases are cleaned
and inerted is shown in Figure 13.14. The exhaust gas is cleaned in a
scrubbing tower, dried and filtered before being passed to the deck
mains for distribution. The gas will contain less than 5% oxygen and is
therefore considered inert. It is distributed along the deck pipes by fans
and passes into the various cargo tanks. Seals in the system act as
non-return valves to prevent a reverse flow of gas.

The inert gas is used to blanket the oil cargo during discharging
operations. Empty tanks are filled with gas and the inert gas is blown out
when oil is loaded.

Inert gas-producing units have the advantage of being able to
continuously produce inert gas. A bottle storage system, such as carbon
dioxide flooding, is a ‘one-shot’ fire extinguisher which leaves a ship
unprotected until further gas supplies can be obtained.

Halon system

Halon 1301 (BTM) and Halon 1211 (BCF) are two halogenated
hydrocarbon gases with special fire extinguishing properties. Unlike
other extinguishing agents which cool the fire or displace oxygen the
Halon gases inhibit the actual flame reaction. As a result of its low
vapour pressure when liquefied Halon can be stored in low-pressure
containers. Alternatively if a standard carbon dioxide cylinder is used
then approximately three times as much gas can be stored. An additional
advantage is that the atmosphere in a Halon flooded space is not toxic,
although some highly irritant gases are produced in the extinguishing
process.

A Halon storage system would be very similar to one using carbon
dioxide except that fewer cylinders would be required. The liquefied
Halon is usually pressurised in the cylinders with nitrogen in order to
increase the speed of discharge. Bulk storage tanks of Halon gas are also
used with cylinders of carbon dioxide and compressed air being used to
operate the control system and expel the gas.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 245 ---
Fresh air inlet control

Air purge

Air purge.

Boiler Boiler =~

uptake To deck
distribution
lines

Recirculating line Recirculating
control

valve

\\ Drain overboard
Seal

water pump
This pump to run continuously

Figure 13.14 Funnel gas inerting system

OS

Aayes pue Suny8y ary

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 246 ---
Fire fighting and safety 247

Halons, while being excellent fire extinguishing gases, have a greater
ozone depleting potential than CFCs. IMO has adopted amendments to
the SOLAS Convention banning any new installations of halon systems
on ships, which are now in force. IMO is further urging annual leakage
inspections for existing installations and actively considering the
phasing-out of all existing systems in the near future.

Fire fighting strategy

Fighting a fire on board ship may amount to a life or death struggle; to
enter into such a conflict unprepared and unarmed is to invite failure.
The ‘armaments’ or equipment available have been described. Now
comes the matter of being prepared.

A basic strategy should be followed in all fire fighting situations. This
will involve four distinct aspects, which are locating, informing, containing
and finally extinguishing a fire.

A fire may be located by detection devices fitted in the various spaces
in a ship or simply by smelling or seeing smoke. Alert personnel,
whether on watch or not, should always be conscious of the danger of
fire and the signs which indicate it. Certain areas are more liable to
outbreaks of fire and these should be regularly visited or checked upon.

Once detected the presence of a fire must be made known quickly to
as many people as possible. It is essential therefore that the bridge is
informed of the location and extent of the fire. A small fire might
reasonably be immediately tackled by the finder but attempts should be
made whilst fighting the fire to attract attention. Shouting ‘Fire’,
banging on bulkheads, deliberately setting off equipment alarms in the
vicinity, all are possible means of attracting attention. Anyone finding a
fire must decide whether to fight it immediately or whether to leave it
and inform others first. The more people who know of a fire the greater
the efforts that can be brought to bear upon it. If in doubt—inform!

Ships are built to contain fires in the space where they begin. Fire
resisting bulkheads and decks are positioned at appropriate distances in
order to limit the spread of fire, and it remains for fire fighting
personnel to ensure that these barriers are secure whilst attempting to
fight the fire. All doors and openings should be closed, all ventilation
and exhaust fans stopped, and flammable material isolated from the
space. It should be remembered that a fire exists in three dimensions
and therefore has six sides, so it must be contained on six sides.

A small fire can usually be easily extinguished but it can also quickly
become a big fire, so the fire extinguishing must be rapid if it is to be
effective. Fire fighting strategy will vary according to the location of the
fire. The various areas and their particular problems will now be
examined.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 247 ---
248 Fire fighting and safety

Accommodation

The accommodation areas will be made up almost exclusively of Class A
material requiring the use of water or soda-acid type extinguishers.
Electrical circuits however should be isolated before directing quantities
of water into an accommodation area. All ventilation and exhaust fans
must be stopped and fire flaps closed. If hoses are employed a water
spray should be used in order to achieve the maximum cooling effect.
The accommodation will no doubt fill with smoke and therefore
breathing apparatus should be available.

The galley area presents a somewhat different fire hazard. Here Class
B materials, such as cooking oil, fat or grease, will be present requiring
the use of foam, dry powder or carbon dioxide extinguishers. A fire
blanket quickly spread over burning cooking utensils could extinguish a
potentially dangerous fire.

Machinery spaces

Machinery space fires will involve mainly Class B material requiring the
use of foam type extinguishers. Only the smallest of fires should be
tackled with hand extinguishers. The alarm should be quickly given and
the bridge informed. The ventilation fans should be stopped and fire
flaps closed. Any oil tanks close to the fire should be closed off and kept
cool by hosing with water. Foam-making equipment should be used on
the fire and foam spread over the tank tops and bilges. Water spray can
also be used to cool the surroundings of the fire, but a water jet should
not be used in the machinery space since it will move any burning oil
around and subsequently spread the fire. Only if the situation becomes
hopeless should the space be evacuated and gas flooding used. The
machinery space contains most of the fire fighting equipment as well as
the propulsion machinery. If it is vacated then control of the situation is
lost to a ‘one-shot’ attempt at gas flooding.

If evacuation is decided upon all personnel must be made aware of the
decision. The space must then be completely sealed against the entry or
exit of air and all oil supplies isolated at the tank valves. When all these
matters have been attended to, the flooding gas can be admitted and, if
the surrounding bulkheads hold to contain the fire, it will quickly go out.
Cooling of the boundary bulkheads should continue from outside the
space whilst flooding is taking place.

When the extinguished fire has been left long enough to cool down
the space can be re-entered. This should be done from the tunnel, if
there is one, or the lowest point remote from the seat of the fire.
Engineers wearing breathing apparatus may now enter, taking water
spray hoses with them to cool down any hot surfaces. Cooling and smoke
dispersal are the first priorities to provide an atmosphere in which

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 248 ---
Fire fighting and safety 249

others can operate and gradually bring the machinery back into service.
Where a machinery space fire involves electrical equipment then only
dry powder or carbon dioxide extinguishers can be used until the
equipment is isolated.

Cargo spaces

Where a fire occurs in a cargo hold with a smoke detection and carbon
dioxide flooding system fitted, the procedure is straightforward and has
already been described. It is essential to ensure before flooding that all
air entry and exit points are closed by fire dampers and all fans are
stopped.

Oil tankers with their cargo tanks full or empty present a potentially
serious fire hazard. A fire occurring in a cargo tank will doubtless lead to
an explosion or an explosion will lead to fire. The rapid use of foam
making equipment, the cooling of surrounding areas and the isolation of
the fire should immediately take place.

The prevention of fire and explosion conditions is the main
prerequisite with oil tankers. With reference to hydrocarbon vapours,
such as those present in oil tanks, the diagram shown in Figure 13.15
should be considered. The relative proportions of hydrocarbon vapour

Upper
flammable
limit

Too rich

Non-flammable

Flammable

Percentage hydrocarbon in mixture

Lower
flammable
Too weak limit

20 15 10 5 0
Percentage oxygen in mixture
Figure 13.15 Flammable limits

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 249 ---
250 Fire fighting and safety

and oxygen necessary for a fire or explosion are shown. By keeping the
tank atmosphere outside of the flammable limits, no fire or explosion
can occur. It is usual practice to inert the tank atmosphere by displacing
the oxygen with an inert gas and thus effectively prevent a fire or
explosion. The inert gas producing systems have already been
described.

Training and awareness

Where is the nearest fire extinguisher? What type is it? How is it
operated? At any position in the ship these questions should be asked
and answered. Knowing how to operate any extinguisher just by looking
at it will indicate some degree of training and an awareness of the fire
defences.

Fire drills are often referred to as ‘Board of Trade Sports’, but they
merit a more sober attitude than they receive. Practices are useful and
should be seriously undertaken. Equipment should be tried and tested
to ensure that it works and is ready when needed. Regular maintenance
should take place on extinguishers, fire pumps, hydrants, hoses, etc. All
engineers should be familiar with recharging and overhauling extin-
guishers and those in charge should make sure it is regularly done. The
statutory surveys do much to ensure that equipment is ready for use but
the one year period between leaves a lot of time for neglect.

Breathing apparatus

Many fire fighting situations may require the use of some form of
breathing apparatus. The use of such equipment will ensure a supply of
oxygen to the wearer so that he can perform his particular tasks in safety.
Two basic types are in use—the smoke helmet and the self-contained
unit using air cylinders.

The smoke helmet arrangement uses a helmet which covers the head
and is connected to an air hose. A hand operated pump or bellows
supplies the air. A system of signals between user and supplier must be
arranged to ensure safe, correct operation.

The self-contained unit consists of one or two cylinders of compressed
air kept in a harness which is carried on the back (Figure 13.16). The
high pressure air is fed through a reducing valve and then to a demand
valve. The demand valve is fitted into a face mask and supplies air to
meet the breathing requirements of the wearer. A non-return valve
permits breathing out to atmosphere. A warning whistle sounds when
the air pressure falls to a low value. A standard cylinder will allow for
about 20 to 30 minutes’ operation.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 250 ---
Fire fighting and safety 251

Auxiliary connector

Figure 13.16 Self-contained breathing apparatus

Safe working practices

Accidents are usually the result of carelessness, mistakes, lack of thought
or care, and often result in injury. Consideration will now be given to
avoiding accidents, largely by the adoption of safe working practices.

Working clothes should be chosen with the job and its hazards in
mind. They should fit fairly closely with no loose flaps, straps or ragged
pockets. Clothing should cover as much of the body as possible and a
stout pair of shoes should be worn. Neck chains, finger rings and
wristwatches should not be worn, particularly in the vicinity of rotating
machinery. Where particular hazards are present appropriate protec-
tion, such as goggles or ear muffs, should be worn.

When overhauling machinery or equipment it must be effectively
isolated from all sources of power. This may involve unplugging from
an electrical circuit, the removal of fuses or the securing open of circuit
breakers. Suction and discharge valves of pumps should be securely
closed and the pump casing relieved of pressure. Special care should be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 251 ---
252 Fire fighting and safety

taken with steam-operated or steam-using equipment to ensure no
pressure build-up can occur.

When lifting equipment during overhaul, screw-in eye bolts should be
used where possible. These should be fully entered up to the collar and
the threads on the eyebolt and in the equipment should be in good
condition. Any lifting wires should be in good condition without broken
strands or sharp edges.

Before any work is done on the main engine, the turning gear should
be engaged and a warning posted at the control position. Lubricating oil
in the working area should be cleaned up and where necessary suitable
staging erected. The turning gear should be made inoperative if not
required during the overhaul. Where it is used, care must be taken to
ensure all personnel are clear before it is used.

Where overhead work is necessary suitable staging should be provided
and adequately lashed down. Staging planks should be examined before
use and where suspect discarded. Where ladders are used for access they
must be secured at either end. Personnel working on staging should take
care with tools and store them in a container.

Boiler blowbacks can cause serious injury and yet with care can usually
be avoided. The furnace floor should be free of oil and burners
regularly checked to ensure that they do not drip, particularly when not
in use. The manufacturer’s instructions should be followed with regard
to lighting up procedures. Generally this will involve blowing through
the furnace (purging) with air prior to lighting up. The fuel oil must be
at the correct temperature and lit with a torch. If ignition does not
immediately occur the oil should be turned off and purging repeated
before a second attempt is made. The burner should be withdrawn and
examined before it is lit.

Entry into an enclosed space should only take place under certain
specified conditions. An enclosed space, such as a duct keel, a double
bottom tank, a cofferdam, boiler, etc. cannot be assumed to contain
oxygen. Anyone requiring to enter such a space should only do so with
the permission of a responsible officer. The space should be well
ventilated before entry takes place and breathing apparatus taken along:
it should be used if any discomfort or drowsiness is felt. Another person
should remain at the entrance to summon assistance if necessary, and
there should be a means of communication arranged between the
person within the space and the attendant. Lifelines and harness should
be available at the entrance to the space. The attendant should first raise
the alarm where the occupant appears in danger but should not enter
the space unless equipped with breathing apparatus.

Training in the use of safety equipment and the conduct of rescues is
essential for all personnel involved.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 252 ---
Chapter 14
Electrical equipment

The complete electrical plant on board ship is made up of power
generation equipment, a distribution system and the many power
utilising devices. Electricity is used for the motor drive of many
auxiliaries and also for deck machinery, lighting, ventilation and air
conditioning equipment. A constant supply of electricity is essential for
safe ship and machinery operation, and therefore standby or additional
capacity is necessary together with emergency supply equipment.
Emergency equipment may take the form of an automatically starting
emergency alternator or storage batteries may be used.

The complete range of electrical equipment will include generators,
switch gear for control and distribution, motors and their associated
starting equipment and emergency supply arrangements.

Alternating or direct current

Alternating current has now all but replaced direct current as the standard
supply for all marine installations. The use of alternating current has a
number of important advantages: for example, reduced first cost, less
weight, less space required and a reduction in maintenance require-
ments. Direct current does, however, offer advantages in motor control
using, for example, the Ward—Leonard system which provides a wide
range of speed.

Machine rating

Motors and generators, both d.c. and a.c., are rated as Continuous
Maximum Rated (CMR) machines. This means they can accept a
considerable momentary overload and perhaps even a moderate
overload for a longer duration.

‘Temperature affects the performance of all electrical equipment and
also the useful life of the insulation and thus the equipment itself. The
total temperature of an operating machine is a result of the ambient air

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 253 ---
254 Electrical equipment

temperature and the heating effect of current in the windings.
Temperature rise is measured above this total temperature. Adequate
ventilation of electrical equipment is therefore essential. Classification
Societies have set requirements for the various classes of insulation. The
usual classes for marine installations are E, B and F where particular
insulation materials are specified and increasing temperature rises
allowed in the order stated.

Enclosures

Depending upon the location, a motor or generator will have one of a
number of possible types of enclosure. ‘Drip-proof’ is most common and
provides protection from falling liquids or liquids being drawn in by
ventilating air. A ‘watertight enclosure’ provides protection for
immersion under a low head of water for up to one hour.
‘Weatherproof, ‘hose proof and ‘deck watertight’ provide immersion
protection for only one minute. ‘Totally enclosed’ can also be used or an
arrangement providing ducted ventilation from outside the machinery
space. A ‘flameproof’ enclosure is capable of withstanding an explosion
of some particular flammable gas that may occur within it. It must also
stop the transfer of flame, i.e. contain any fire or explosion.

Direct current generators

A current is produced when a single coil of wire is rotated in a magnetic
field. When the current is collected using a ring which is split into two
halves (a commutator), a direct or single direction current is produced.
The current produced may be increased by the use of many turns of
wire and additional magnetic fields.

With many coils connected to the commutator, sparking will occur as
the current collecting brushes move across the insulated segments.
Commutating poles or interpoles are used to reduce this sparking. They
are in fact electromagnets having a polarity the same as the main pole
which follows in the direction of rotation.

The magnetic field between the poles is produced by what are known
as ‘field coils’. These coils are excited or energised by the current
produced in the machine. The soft iron core of the field coils retains
some magnetism which enables a preliminary current generation to
build up eventually to the full machine output. The field windings can
be connected to the output current in a number of ways—shunt, series
or compound. The compound wound arrangement is usual since it
provides the best voltage characteristics.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 254 ---
Electrical equipment 255

The compound wound generator has two sets of field coils (Figure
14.1(a)). The shunt coil has many turns of fine wire and the series coil
has a few turns of heavy wire. The shunt field produces full voltage on
no-load which falls off as the load current increases. The series field
creates an increase in voltage as the load increases. Properly combined
or compounded the result is a fairly constant voltage over a range of
load (Figure 14.1(b)).

Voltage from
compound field

Voltage SS -
(volts) ——- '
TT ~ 3 Rated voltage
Voltage from i
shunt field '
i
1
'
i
Voltage from :
series field !
t

|

1 Full load

Qo
Load current (amperes)

(b)

Figure 14.1 Compound wound d.c. generator, (a) field connection; (b) characteristic
curves

Direct current distribution

The generated supply is provided to conductors known as ‘bus-bars’
which are located behind the main switchboard. The supply then passes
through circuit breakers to auxiliaries directly or to section or
distribution boards. A circuit breaker is an isolating switch. A section
board is a grouping of electrical services fed from the main board. A

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 255 ---
256 Electrical equipment

distribution board feeds minor supplies such as lighting and may itself
be fed from the main board or a section board. The distribution system
is shown in Figure 14.2.

A two wire system is usual to provide a supply and return to each item
of equipment. An earth lead would be the only electrical connection
between any item of equipment and the ship’s structure. With
compound wound generators a third bus-bar would be introduced as the
equalising connection between machines.

A fuse is a type of switch which isolates a circuit if an excessive current
flows. To reconnect the circuit, after discovering the cause of the
overload, the fuse must be rewired or replaced. The fuse is in effect a
weak link in the circuit designed to break and protect equipment from
damaging high currents. A semi-enclosed or rewirable fuse will have
provision for a wire to be replaced after it has burnt out. The correct
rating of fuse wire should be replaced within the holder to reinstate the
circuit. A cartridge fuse has the wire enclosed within a ceramic body and
it is not rewirable. A ‘blown’ cartridge fuse must be replaced by a new
one, The cartridge fuse is to be preferred since the fusing current value
is more reliable than for a rewirable type.

A circuit breaker is an isolating switch which also functions as a fuse. It
has two designed ratings: one of the normal safe working current, the
other the overload current. The breaker is closed against the action of a
spring to make the circuit and supply the section board or auxiliary. A
trip mechanism opens the breaker, a fast opening being ensured by the
spring. When desired the breaker is tripped or opened manually. It will
also open if the overload current rating is exceeded for a period of time.

board Ste rti
C+ Distribution
board

Minor
iaati A supplies
Minor Navigation supplies

supplies

Figure 14.2 D.C. distribution system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 256 ---
Electrical equipment 257

A delay mechanism prevents the breaker opening for short-period
overload currents. The circuit breaker opens or closes both supply and
return leads in the circuit. Where a circuit breaker feeds the generator
supply to the bus-bars a third ‘make-or-break’ arm will be provided for
the equaliser connection.

Preferential tripping is a means of retaining essential electrical
supplies. In the event that a generator cannot supply all the load then
non-essential loads are disconnected by preferential trips. The intention
is to reduce the generator load while ensuring essential equipment such
as steering gear, navigation lights, etc., retains its electrical supply.

Various circuit faults can occur as a result of either a break in the
conductor (cable) or a break in the insulation. An open-circuit fault
results from a break in the conductor and no current flow will take place.
A short-circuit fault is due to two breaks in the insulation on, for
example, adjacent conductors. The two conductors are connected and a
large current flow takes place. An earth fault occurs. when a break in the
insulation permits the conductor to touch an earthed metal enclosure (or
the hull).

Earth faults are usually detected by the use of earth indicating lamps.
Two lamps are used, each rated for the full system voltage, but
connected in series across the system with the mid point earthed (Figure
14.3). If the system is correctly insulated then both lamps will glow at

Bus bars

Lamp Lamp
Earth
connection

Figure 14.3 Earth lamp circuit

half brilliance. The lamps are placed close together to enable a
comparison to be made. A direct earth in one pole will short circuit its
lamp, causing the other to shine brightly. A slight insulation breakdown
would produce a difference in bulb brightness between the two. Where
an earth fault is detected the circuit breakers for each separate circuit
must be opened in turn until the fault location is discovered. The
particular section or distribution box would then have to have its circuits
investigated one by one to locate the fault and enable its correction.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 257 ---
258 Electrical equipment

Direct current supply

The supply to a distribution system will usually come from two or more
generators operating in parallel. Each generator must be provided with
certain protective devices to ensure against reverse currents, low voltage
or an overcurrent. There must also be ammeters and voltmeters in the
circuits to enable paralleling to take place.

The circuit for two generators operating in parallel is shown in Figure
14.4. A triple-pole circuit breaker connects the supply to the bus-bars and
also the equaliser bus-bar. The arrangement of the various protective
trips can be seen, with excess current protection being provided in each
pole. The reverse current trip prevents the generator operating as a
motor if, for instance, the prime mover stopped.

The voltmeters and ammeters are provided in the generator supply
circuits for paralleling purposes. A voltmeter is positioned across the
bus-bars to indicate their voltage. Consider the situation where one

Ammeter

Circuit

breaker
Excess
current
trip
Reverse
current
trip

Shunt field

‘Resistance

Figure 14.4 Protective trips for the parallel operation of two d.c. generators

generator is supplying the bus-bar system and a second generator is to
be paralleled with it. The second machine is run up to speed and its field
current adjusted until the two machines are at the same voltage. The
circuit breaker connecting the second machine to the bus-bar can now be
closed and the field current adjusted to enable the generator to take its
share of the load. When the load is evenly shared the two machines can
then be left to operate in parallel. The equalising connection will cater
for any slight changes in load sharing that occur.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 258 ---
Electrical equipment 259
Alternating current generators

A coil of wire rotating in a magnetic field produces a current. The
current can be brought out to two sliprings which are insulated from the
shaft. Carbon bushes rest on these rings as they rotate and collect the
current for use in an external circuit. Current collected in this way will
be alternating, that is, changing in direction and rising and falling in
value. To increase the current produced, additional sets of poles may be
introduced.

The magnetic field is provided by electromagnets so arranged that
adjacent poles have opposite polarity. These ‘field coils’, as they are
called, are connected in series to an external source or the machine
output.

If separate coils or conductors are used then several outputs can be
obtained. Three outputs are usually arranged with a phase separation of
120°, to produce a three-phase supply. The supply phasing is shown in
Figure 14.5. The three-phase system is more efficient in that for the
same mechanical power a greater total electrical output is obtained. Each
of the three outputs may be used in single-phase supplies or in
conjunction for a three-phase supply. The separate supplies are
connected in either star or delta formation (Figure 14.6). The star
formation is most commonly used and requires four sliprings on the
alternator. The three conductors are joined at a common slipring and
also have their individual slipring. The central or neutral line is common
to each phase. The delta arrangement has two phases joined at each of
the three sliprings on the alternator. A single-phase supply can be taken
from any two sliprings.

Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3

Voltage
KAXKK
ey

Armature angle

Figure 14.5 Three-phase alternator output

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 259 ---
266 Electrical equipment

Phase 3

Phase 2

Delta connection

Phase 1

Phase 3

Star connection

Figure 14.6 Star and delta three-phase connections

So far, alternator construction has considered the armature rotating
and the field coils stationary. The same electricity generating effect is
produced if the reverse occurs, that is, the field coils rotate and the
armature is stationary. This is in fact the arrangement adopted for large,
heavy duty alternators.

The field current supply in older machines comes from a low-voltage
direct current generator or exciter on the same shaft as the alternator.
Modern machines, however, are either statically excited or of the
high-speed brushless type. The exciter is required to operate to counter
the effects of power factor for a given load. The power factor is a
measure of the phase difference between voltage and current and is
expressed as the cosine of the phase angle. With a purely resistance load
the voltage and current are in phase, giving a power factor of one. The
power consumed is therefore the product of voltage and current.
Inductive or capacitive loads, combined with resistance loads, produce

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 260 ---
Electrical equipment 261

lagging or leading power factors which have a value less than one. The
power consumed is the product of current, voltage and power factor.
The alternating current generator supplying a load has a voltage drop
resulting from the load. When the load has a lagging power factor this
voltage drop is considerable. Therefore the exciter, in maintaining the
alternator voltage, must vary with the load current and also the power
factor. The speed change of the prime mover must also be taken into
account.

Hand control of excitation is difficult so use is made of an automatic
voltage regulator (AVR). The AVR consists basically of a circuit fed
from the alternator output voltage which detects small changes in
voltage and feeds a signal to an amplifier which changes the excitation to
correct the voltage. Stabilising features are also incorporated in the
circuits to avoid ‘hunting’ (constant voltage fluctuations) or overcorrect-
ing. Various designs of AVR are in use which can be broadly divided
into classes such as carbon pile types, magnetic amplifiers, electronic
types, etc.

The statically excited alternator has a static excitation system instead
of a d.c. exciter. This type of alternator will more readily accept the
sudden loading by direct on-line starting of large squirrel cage motors.
The static excitation system uses transformers and rectifiers to provide
series and shunt components for the alternator field, that is, it is
compounded. Brushes and sliprings are used to transfer the current to
the field coils which are mounted on the rotor. The terminal voltage
from the alternator thus gives the no-load voltage and the load current

Cooler

Yt

Auxiliary
engine

Slip rings

Heater

Figure 14.7 Alternator construction

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 261 ---
262 Electrical equipment

provides the extra excitation to give a steady voltage under any load
condition. The careful matching of components provides a system which
functions as a self regulator of voltage. Certain practical electrical
problems and the compensation necessary for speed variation require
that a voltage regulator is also built into the system.

The brushless high speed alternator was also developed to eliminate
d.c. exciters with their associated commutators and brushgear. The
alternator and exciter rotors are on a common shaft, which also carries
the rectifiers. The exciter output is fed to the rectifiers and then through
conductors in the hollow shaft to the alternator field coils. An automatic
voltage regulator is used with this type of alternator.

The construction of an alternator can be seen in Figure 14.7. The
rotor houses the poles which provide the field current, and these are
usually of the salient or projecting-pole type. Slip rings and a fan are also
mounted on the rotor shaft, which is driven by the auxiliary engine. The
stator core surrounds the rotor and supports the three separate phase
windings. Heat is produced in the various windings and must be
removed by cooling. The shaft fan drives air over a water-cooled heat
exchanger. Electric heaters are used to prevent condensation on the
windings when the alternator is not in use.

In addition to auxiliary-engine-driven alternators a ship may have a
shaft-driven alternator. In this arrangement a drive is taken from the
main engine or the propeller shaft and used to rotate the alternator. The
various operating conditions of the engine will inevitably result in
variations of the alternator driving speed. A hydraulic pump and
gearbox arrangement may be used to provide a constant-speed drive, or
the alternator output may be fed to a static frequency converter. In the
static frequency converter the a.c. output is first rectified into a variable
d.c. voltage and then inverted back into a three-phase a.c. voltage. A
feedback system in the oscillator inverter produces a constant-output a.c.
voltage and frequency.

Distribution system

Ana.c. distribution system is provided from the main switchboard which
is itself supplied by the alternators (Figure 14.8). The voltage at the
switchboard is usually 440 volts, but on some large installations it may be
as high as 3300 volts. Power is supplied through circuit breakers to
larger auxiliaries at the high voltage. Smaller equipment may be
supplied via fuses or miniature circuit breakers. Lower voltage supplies
used, for instance, for lighting at 220 volts, are supplied by step down
transformers in the distribution network.

The distribution system will be three-wire with insulated or earthed
neutral. The insulated neutral has largely been favoured, but earthed

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 262 ---
Electrical equipment —.263

neutral systems have occasionally been installed. The insulated neutral
system can suffer from surges of high voltage as a result of switching or
system faults which could damage machinery. Use of the earthed system
could result in the loss of an essential service such as the steering gear as
a result of an earth fault. An earth fault on the insulated system would
not, however, break the supply and would be detected in the earth lamp
display. Insulated systems have therefore been given preference since
earth faults are a common occurrence on ships and a loss of supply in
such situations cannot be accepted.

D.C.
emergency
supply

From shore supply

Step down transformer

Emergency olo|o Batteries
supply

Lighting
toads

Power
Step down transformer —_ loads

Main
supply’

Lighting

foads loads Joads loads

Turbo Diesel Diesel
alternator alternator alternator

Figure 14.8 A.C. distribution system

In the distribution system there will be circuit breakers and fuses, as
mentioned previously for d.c. distribution systems. Equipment for a.c.
systems is smaller and lighter because of the higher voltage and
therefore lower currents. Miniature circuit breakers are used for
currents up to about 100A and act as a fuse and a circuit breaker. The
device will open on overload and also in the event of a short circuit.
Unlike a fuse, the circuit can be quickly remade by simply closing the
switch. A large version of this device is known as the ‘moulded-case
circuit breaker’ and can handle currents in excess of 1000 A. Preferential
tripping and earth fault indication will also be a part of the a.c.
distribution system. These two items have been mentioned previously
for d.c. distribution systems.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 263 ---
264 Electrical equipment
Alternating current supply

Three-phase alternators arranged for parallel operation require a
considerable amount of instrumentation. This will include ammeters,
wattmeter, voltmeter, frequency meter and a synchronising device. Most
of these instruments will use transformers to reduce the actual values
taken to the instrument. This also enables switching, for instance,
between phases or an incoming machine and the bus-bars, so that one
instrument can display one of a number of values. The wattmeter
measures the power being used in a circuit, which, because of the power
factor aspect of alternating current load, will be less than the product of
the volts and amps. Reverse power protection is provided to alternators
since reverse current protection cannot be used. Alternatively various
trips may be provided in the event of prime mover failure to ensure that
the alternator does not act as a motor.

The operation of paralleling two alternators requires the voltages to
be equal and also in phase. The alternating current output of any
machine is always changing, so for two machines to operate together
their voltages must be changing at the same rate or frequency and be
reaching their maximum (or any other value) together. They are then
said to be ‘in phase’. Use is nowadays made of a synchroscope when
paralleling two a.c. machines. The synchroscope has two windings which
are connected one to each side of the paralleling switch. A pointer is free
to rotate and is moved by the magnetic effect of the two windings. When
the two voltage supplies are in phase the pointer is stationary in the 12
o'clock position. If the pointer is rotating then a frequency difference
exists and the dial is marked for clockwise rotation FAST and
anti-clockwise rotation sLow, the reference being to the incoming
machine frequency.

To parallel an incoming machine to a running machine therefore it is
necessary to ensure firstly that both voltages are equal. Voltmeters are
provided for this purpose. Secondly the frequencies must be brought
into phase. In practice the synchroscope usually moves slowly in the FAST
direction and the paralleling switch is closed as the pointer reaches the
11 o'clock position. This results in the incoming machine immediately
accepting a small amount of load.

A set of three lamps may also be provided to enable synchronising.
The sequence method of lamp connection has a key lamp connected
across one phase with the two other lamps cross connected over the
other two phases. If the frequencies of the machines are different the
lamps will brighten and darken in rotation, depending upon the
incoming frequency being FAST or sLOW. The correct moment for
synchronising is when the key lamp is dark and the other two are equally
bright.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 264 ---
Electrical equipment 265

Direct current motors

When a current is supplied to a single coil of wire in a magnetic field a
force is created which rotates the coil. This is a similar situation to the
generation of current by a coil moving in a magnetic field. In fact
generators and motors are almost interchangeable, depending upon
which two of magnetic field, current and motion are provided.
Additional coils of wire and more magnetic fields produce a more
efficient motor. Interpoles are fitted to reduce sparking but now have
opposite polarity to the next main pole in the direction of rotation.
When rotating the armature acts as a generator and produces current in
the reverse direction to the supply. This is known as back e.m.f.
(electromotive force) and causes a voltage drop across the motor. This
back e.m.f. controls the power used by the motor but is not present as
the motor is started. As a result, to avoid high starting currents special
control circuits or starters are used.

The behaviour of the d.c. motor on load is influenced by the voltage
drop across the armature, the magnetic field produced between the
poles and the load or torque on the motor. Some of these factors are
interdependent. For example, the voltage drop across the armature
depends upon the back e.m.f. which depends upon the speed of the
motor and the strength of the magnetic field. Shunt, series and
compound windings are used to obtain different motor characteristics
by varying the above factors.

The shunt wound motor has field windings connected in parallel with
the armature windings (Figure 14.9). Thus when the motor is operating
with a fixed load at constant speed all other factors are constant. An
increase in load will cause a drop in speed and therefore a reduction in
back e.m.f. A greater current will then flow in the armature windings
and the motor power consumption will rise: the magnetic field will be
unaffected since it is connected in parallel. Speed reduction is, in

Reversing
switch

Armature

Variable
resistance Figure 14.9 Shunt wound d.c. motor

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 265 ---
266 Electrical equipment

practice, very small, which makes the shunt motor an ideal choice for
constant-speed variable-load duties.

The series motor has field windings connected in series with the
armature windings (Figure 14.10). With this arrangement an increase in
load will cause a reduction in speed and a fall in back e.m.f. The
increased load current will, however, now increase the magnetic field
and therefore the back e.m.f. The motor will finally stabilise at some
reduced value of speed. The series motor speed therefore changes
considerably with load.

Control of d.c. motors is quite straightforward. The shunt wound
motor has a variable resistance in the field circuit, as shown in Figure
14.9. This permits variation of the current in the field coils and also the
back e.m.f., giving a range of constant speeds. To reverse the motor the
field current supply is reversed, as shown in Figure 14.9.

One method of speed control for a series wound motor has a variable
resistance in parallel with the field coils. Reverse operation is again
achieved by reversing the field current supply as shown in Figure 14.10.

In operation the shunt wound motor runs at constant speed
regardless of load. The series motor runs at a speed determined by the
load, the greater the load the slower the speed. Compounding—the use
of shunt and series field windings—provides a combination of these
characteristics. Starting torque is also important. For a series wound
motor the starting torque is high and it reduces as the load increases.
This makes the series motor useful for winch and crane applications. It
should be noted that a series motor if started on no-load has an infinite
speed. Some small amount of compounding is usual to avoid this
dangerous occurrence. The shunt wound motor is used where constant
speed is required regardless of load; for instance, with fans or pumps.

The starting of a d.c. motor requires a circuit arrangement to limit
armature current. This is achieved by the use of a starter (Figure 14.11).
A number of resistances are provided in the armature and progressively
removed as the motor speeds up and back e.m.f. is developed. An arm,
as part of the armature circuit, moves over resistance contacts such that a
number of resistances are first put into the armature circuit and then

Reversing
switch

Variable
resistance

Figure 14.10 Series wound d.c. motor

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 266 ---
Electrical equipment 267

Overload trip

Figure 14.11 D.C. motor starter

progressively removed. The arm must be moved slowly to enable the
motor speed and thus the back e.m.f. to build up. At the final contact no
resistance is in the armature circuit. A ‘hold on’ or ‘no volts’ coil holds the
starter arm in place while there is current in the armature circuit. If a
loss of supply occurs the arm will be released and returned to the ‘off
position by a spring. The motor must then be started again in the normal
way. An overload trip is also provided which prevents excess current by
shorting out the ‘hold on’ coil and releasing the starter arm. The
overload coil has a soft iron core which, when magnetised sufficiently by
an excess current, attracts the trip bar which shorts out the hold on coil.
This type of starter is known as a ‘face plate’; other types make use of
contacts without the starting handle but introduce resistance into the
armature circuit in much the same way.

Alternating current motors

Supplying alternating current to a coil which is free to rotate in a
magnetic field will not produce a motor effect since the current is
constantly changing direction. Use is therefore made in an induction or
squirrel cage motor of a rotating magnetic field produced by three
separately phased windings in the stator. The rotor has a series of
copper conductors along its axis which are joined by rings at the ends to
form a cage. When the motor is started the rotating magnetic field
induces an e.m.f. in the cage and thus a current flow. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 267 ---
268 Electrical equipment

current-carrying conductor in a magnetic field produces the motor
effect which turns the rotor. The motor speed builds up to a value just
less than the speed of rotation of the magnetic field.

The motor speed depends upon the e.m.f. induced in the rotor and
this depends upon the difference in speed between the conductors and
the magnetic field. If the load is increased the rotor slows down slightly,
causing an increase in induced e.m.f. and thus a greater torque to deal
with the increased load. The motor is almost constant speed over all
values of load. It will start against about two times full load torque but
draws a starting current of about six times the normal full load current.
The starting current can be reduced by having a double cage
arrangement on the rotor. Two separated cages are provided, one below
the other in the rotor. When starting, the outer high-resistance cage
carries almost all the rotor current. As the motor accelerates the
low-resistance inner winding takes more and more of the current until it
carries the majority.

A number of different fixed speeds are possible by pole changing.
The speed of an induction motor is proportional to frequency divided
by the numbers of pairs of poles. If therefore a switch is provided which
can alter the numbers of pairs of poles, then various fixed speeds are
possible. The number of poles affects the starting characteristics such
that the more poles the less the starting torque to full load torque ratio.

Only the induction type of a.c. motor has been described, since it is
almost exclusively used in maritime work. Synchronous motors are
another type which have been used for electrical propulsion systems but
not auxiliary drives.

A number of different arrangements can be used for starting an
induction motor. These include direct on-line, star delta, auto
transformer and stator resistance. Direct on-line starting is usual where
the distribution system can accept the starting current. Where a slow
moving high inertia load is involved the starting time must be considered
because of the heating effect of the starting current. The star delta
starter connects the stator windings first in star and when running
changes over to delta. The star connection results in about half of the
line voltage being applied to each phase with therefore a reduction in
starting current. The starting torque is also reduced to about one-third
of its direct on line value. A rapid change-over to delta is required at
about 75% of full load speed when the motor will draw about
three-and-a-half times its full load current. The auto transformer starter
is used only for large motors. It uses tappings from a transformer to
provide, for example, 40%, 60% and 75% of normal voltage (Figure
14.12). The motor is started on one of the tappings and then quickly
switched to full voltage at about 75% full speed. The tapping chosen will
depend upon the starting torque required with a 60% tapping giving

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 268 ---
Electrical equipment 269

Auto transformer

Motor

Running — Starting

Figure 14.12 Squirrel cage induction motor starting

about 70% of full load torque. A smaller percentage tapping will give a
smaller starting torque and vice-versa. The stator resistance starter has a
resistance in the stator circuit when the motor is started. An adjustable
timing device operates to short circuit this resistance when the motor has
reached a particular speed.

Modern electronic techniques enable a.c. induction motors to be used
in speed-control systems. The ship’s supply, which may not be as stable
in voltage or frequency as that ashore, is first rectified to provide a d.c.
supply. This is then used as the power supply of an oscillator using
high-power electronic devices. These may be thyristors (for powers up to
1.5 MW or more) or transistors (for powers up to a few tens of kilowatts).
The high-power oscillator output is controlled in frequency and voltage
by a feedback system. The motor speed is varied by changing the
oscillator output frequency. The motor current necessary to obtain the
desired torque (at small angles of slip) is normally obtained by
maintaining the voltage almost proportional to frequency.

Certain protective devices are fitted in the motor circuit to protect
against faults such as single phasing, overload or undervoltage. Single
phasing occurs when one phase in a three-phase circuit becomes open
circuited. The result is excessive currents in all the windings with, in the
case of a delta connected stator running at full load, one winding taking
three times its normal load current. A machine which is running when
single phasing occurs will continue to run but with an unbalanced
distribution of current. An overload protection device may not trip if the
motor is running at less than full load. One method of single phasing
protection utilises a temperature-sensitive device which isolates the
machine from the supply at some particular winding temperature.
Overload protection devices are also fitted and may be separate or
combined with the single phase protection device. They must have a
time delay fitted so that operation does not occur during the high

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 269 ---
270 Electrical equipment

starting current period. An undervoltage or ‘no volts’ protective device
ensures that the motor is properly started after a supply failure.

Maintenance

With all types of electrical equipment cleanliness is essential for good
operation. Electrical connections must be sound and any signs of
sparking should be investigated. Parts subject to wear must be examined
and replaced when necessary. The danger from a.c. equipment in terms
of electric shocks is far greater than for similar d.c. voltages. Also a.c.
equipment often operates at very high voltages. Care must therefore be
taken to ensure isolation of equipment before any inspections or
maintenance is undertaken.

The accumulation of dirt on electrical equipment will result in
insulation breakdown and leakage currents, possibly even an earth fault.
Moisture or oil deposits will likewise affect insulation resistance. Regular
insulation resistance measurement and the compiling of records will
indicate the equipment requiring attention. Ventilation passages or
ducts may become blocked, with resultant lack of cooling and
overheating. Oil deposits from a direct-coupled diesel engine driving an
open generator (usually d.c.) can damage windings and should therefore
be removed if found. Totally enclosed machines should be periodically
opened for inspection and cleaning since carbon dust will remain inside
the machine and deposit on the surfaces.

Brushgear should be inspected to ensure adequate brush pressure
and the springs adjusted if necessary. New brushes should be ‘bedded in’
to the commutator or slipring shape with fine glass paper. Sparking at
the commutator will indicate poor commutation. This may require
polishing of a roughened commutator surface. The mica insulation
between commutator segments may require undercutting if it prot-
rudes, or simply cleaning if deposits have built up.

Control equipment, such as starters, will require attention to contacts
which may be worn or pitted as a result of arcing. Contactors usually
have a moving or wiping action as they come together. This helps clean
the surfaces to provide good electrical contact, and also the arc produced
during closing and opening is not at the finally closed position. The
contactor contact surfaces of frequently used equipment should
therefore be subject to regular inspections.

Batteries

The battery is a convenient means of storing electricity. It is used on
many ships as an instantly available emergency supply. It may also be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 270 ---
Electrical equipment 271

used on a regular basis to provide a low-voltage d.c. supply to certain
equipment. To provide these services the appropriate size and type of
battery must be used and should be regularly serviced. Two main types
of battery are used on board ship: the tead—acid and the alkaline type,
together with various circuits and control gear.

Lead—acid battery

The lead—acid battery is made up of a series of cells. One cell consists of
a lead peroxide positive plate and a lead negative plate both immersed in
a dilute sulphuric acid solution. The sulphuric acid is known as the
‘electrolyte’. A wire joining these two plates will have a potential or
voltage developed across it and a current will flow. This voltage is about
2.2V initially with a steady value of about 2V. A grouping of six
separate cells connected in series will give a 12V battery. The word
‘accumulator’ is sometimes used instead of battery.

Actual construction uses interleaved plates in the cell in order to
produce a compact arrangement with a greater capacity. The complete
battery is usually surrounded by a heavy-duty plastic, hard rubber or
bitumen case.

In the charged condition the battery contains lead, lead peroxide and
sulphuric acid. During discharge, i.e. the providing of electrical power,
some of the lead peroxide and the lead will change to lead sulphate and
water. The sulphuric acid is weakened by this reaction and its specific
gravity falls.

When the battery is charged, i.e. electrical power is put into it, the
reactions reverse to return the plates to their former material and the
water produced breaks down into hydrogen gas which bubbles out.

Alkaline battery

The basic cell of the alkaline battery consists of a nickel hydroxide
positive plate and a cadmium and iron negative plate immersed in a
solution of potassium hydroxide. The cell voltage is about 1.4V. A
grouping of five cells is usual to give about seven volts.

An interleaved construction is again used and each cell is within a steel
casing. This casing is electrically ‘live’ being in contact with the
electrolyte and possibly one set of plates. A battery consists of a group of
cells mounted in hardwood crates with space between each. The cells are
connected in series to give the battery voltage.

In the charged condition the positive plate is nickel hydroxide and the
negative plate cadmium. During discharge oxygen is transferred from
one plate to the other without affecting the specific gravity of the
potassium hydroxide solution. The negative plate becomes cadmium

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 271 ---
272 Electrical equipment

oxide and the positive plate is less oxidised nickel hydroxide. Charging
the battery returns the oxygen to the positive plate.

Battery selection

The choice between the lead—acid or alkaline type of battery will be
based upon their respective advantages and disadvantages.

The lead—acid battery uses fewer cells to reach a particular voltage. It
is reasonably priced but has a limited life. It does, however, discharge on
open circuit and requires regular attention and charging to keep it in a
fully charged condition. If left in a discharged condition for any period
of time a lead—acid battery may be ruined.

The alkaline battery retains its charge on open circuit and even if
discharged it can be left for long periods without any adverse effect.
Although more expensive it will last much longer and requires less
attention. Also a greater number of cells are required for a particular
voltage because of the smaller nominal value per cell.

Both types of battery are widely used at sea for the same basic duties.

Operating characteristics

When operating in a circuit a battery provides current and voltage and is
itself discharging. Depending upon the capacity, it will provide current
and voltage for a short or a long time. The capacity is measured in
ampere hours, i.e. the number of hours a particular current can be
supplied. Thus a 20 ampere-hour capacity battery can supply 2 A for 10
hours or 1A for 20 hours. This is a reasonable assumption for small
currents. The ampere-hour capacity does depend upon the rate of
discharge and therefore for currents above about 5A, a rate of
discharge is also quoted.

Having been ‘discharged’ by delivering electrical power a battery must
then be ‘charged’ by receiving electrical power. To charge the battery an
amount of electrical power must be provided in the order of the
capacity. Some energy loss occurs due to heating and therefore slightly
more than the capacity in terms of electrical power must be provided. By
charging with a low current value the heating losses can be kept to a
minimum.

The different methods of charging include constant current, constant
voltage and trickle charge. With constant current charging the series
resistance is reduced in order to increase the charging voltage. This may
be achieved manually or automatically. The constant voltage system
results in a high value of current which gradually falls as the battery
charges. The circuit resistance prevents the initial current from being
too high. Trickle charging is used to keep a battery in peak condition—a

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 272 ---
Electrical equipment 273

very low current is continuously passed through the battery and keeps it
fully charged.

Maintenance

To be available when required batteries must be maintained in a fully
charged condition. Where lead—acid batteries are used this can be
achieved by a constant trickle charge. Otherwise, for both types of
battery, a regular charge-up is necessary.

A measure of the state of charge can be obtained by using a
hydrometer. This is a device for measuring the specific gravity of a
liquid. A syringe-type hydrometer is shown in Figure 14.13. A sample of
electrolyte is taken from each cell in turn and its specific gravity is
measured by reading the float level. All specific gravity values for the
individual cells in a battery should read much the same. The specific
gravity reading can be related to the state of charge of the battery. The
specific gravity reading must be corrected for the temperature of the
electrolyte. The value for a fully charged lead—acid battery is 1.280 at

Rubber
bulb

Glass
tube Float
stem
1200
1.25
1250-—~|- -- -- -
1300 Electrolyte

Reading the float scale
Float

Rubber

Figure 14.13 Syringe-type hydrometer

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 273 ---
274 Electrical equipment

15°C. For an alkaline battery the specific gravity does not alter much
during charge and discharge but gradually falls over a long period:
when a value of 1.160 is reached it should be replaced.

The electrolyte level should be maintained just above the top of the
plates. Any liquid loss due to evaporation or chemical action should be
replaced with distilled water. Only in an emergency should other water
be used. It is not usual to add electrolyte to batteries.

A battery must be kept clean and dry. If dirt deposits build up or spilt
electrolyte remains on the casing, stray currents may flow and discharge
the battery. Corrosion of the casing could also occur. The battery
terminals should be kept clean and smeared with a petroleum jelly. The
small vents in the cell caps should be clear at all times.

Cell voltage readings are useful if taken while the battery is
discharging. All cells should give about the same voltage reading. This
test method is of particular value with alkaline batteries, where specific
gravity readings for the electrolyte do not indicate the state of charge.

Ward—Leonard speed control system

As a very flexible, reliable means of motor speed control the
Ward-Leonard system is unmatched.

The system is made up of a driving motor which runs at almost
constant speed and powers a d.c. generator (Figure 14.14). The
generator output is fed to a d.c. motor. By varying the generator field
current its output voltage will change. The speed of the controlled
motor can thus be varied smoothly from zero to full speed. Since control

D.C. motor

D.C. (controlled)

Generator Motor
generator i

field field
winding winding

A.C. motor,
(driving)

Transformer

Control =
| potentiometer

Rectifier
Figure 14.14 Ward—Leonard speed control

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 274 ---
Electrical equipment 275

is achieved through the generator shunt field current, the control
equipment required is only for small current values. A potentiometer or
rheostat in the generator field circuit enables the variation of output
voltage from zero to the full value and also in either direction. The
controlled motor has a constant excitation: its speed and direction are
thus determined by the generator output.

Depending upon the particular duties of the controlled motor, series
windings may be incorporated in the field of the motor and also the
generator. This may result in additional switching to reverse the
controlled motor depending upon the compounding arrangements.

The driving motor or prime motor for the Ward—Leonard system can
be a d.c. motor, an a.c. motor, a diesel engine, etc. Any form of constant
or almost constant speed drive can be used, since its function is only to
drive the generator.

Emergency generator supply

In the event of a main generating system failure an emergency supply of
electricity is required for essential services. This can be supplied by
batteries, but most merchant ships have an emergency generator. The
unit is diesel driven and located outside of the machinery space (see
Chapter 10, Emergency equipment).

The emergency generator must be rated to provide power for the
driving motors of the emergency bilge pump, fire pumps, steering gear,
watertight doors and possibly fire fighting equipment. Emergency
lighting for occupied areas, navigation lights, communications systems
and alarm systems must also be supplied. Where electrical control
devices are used in the operation of main machinery, these too may
require a supply from the emergency generator.

A switchboard in the emergency generator room supplies these
various loads (Figure 14.8). It is not usual for an emergency generator to
require paralleling, so no equipment is provided for this purpose.
Automatic start up of the emergency generator at a low voltage value is
usual on modern installations.

Navigation lights

The supply to the navigation lights circuit must be maintained under all
circumstances and special provisions are therefore made.

To avoid any possibility of accidental open circuits the distribution
board for the navigation lights supplies no other circuit. A changeover
switch provides an alternative source of supply should the main supply

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 275 ---
276 Electrical equipment

fail. If the navigation lights fail, a visual or audible indication must be
given.

A navigation lights circuit is shown in Figure 14.15, Two sources of
supply are available from the changeover switch. A double pole switch
connects the supply to each light circuit, with a fuse in each line. A relay
in the circuit will operate the buzzer if an open circuit occurs, since the
relay will de-energise and the trip bar will complete the buzzer circuit. A
resistance in series with the indicating lamp will ensure the navigation
lights operate even if the indicating lamp fails. A main supply failure will
result in all the indicating lamps extinguishing but the buzzer will not
sound. The changeover switch will then have to be moved to the
alternative supply.

Changeover .
switch Mains supply

Double
pole Emergency
switch supply

Indicating
lamp

Resistance

Navigation Navigation
light light

Figure 14,15 Navigation lights circuit

Insulation resistance measurement

Good insulation resistance is essential to the correct operation of
electrical equipment. A means must be available therefore to measure
insulation resistance. Readings taken regularly will give an indication as
to when and where corrective action, maintenance, servicing, etc., is
required.

Insulation resistance may be measured between a conductor and earth
or between conductors. Dirt or other deposits on surfaces can reduce

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 276 ---
Electrical equipment

i

Control coil

Permanent
Deflecting magnet rotor
coil

Control circuit
resistance

Insulation \

under Deflecting Wound
test circuit stator
resistance

Figure 14.16 Insulation tester

insulation resistance and cause a leakage current or ‘tracking’ to occur.
Equipment must therefore be kept clean in order to ensure high values,
in megohms, of insulation resistance.

Insulation is classified in relation to the maximum temperature at
which it is safe for the equipment or cables to operate. Classes A (55°C),
E (70°C) and B (80°C) are used for marine equipment.

One instrument used for insulation testing is shown in Figure 14.16.
Its trade name is ‘Megger Tester’. A permanent magnet provides a
magnetic field for a pivoted core which is wound with two coils. A needle
or pointer is pivoted at the centre of rotation of the coils and moves
when they do. The two coils are wound at right angles to each other and
connected in such a way that one measures voltage and the other
measures current. The needle deflection is a result of the opposing
effects of the two coils which gives a reading of insulation resistance. A
hand driven generator provides a test voltage to operate the instrument.
Test probes are used to measure the resistance at the desired points.

Electrical hazards

The resistance of the human body is quite high only when the skin is dry.
The danger of electric shock is therefore much greater for persons

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 277 ---
278 Electrical equipment

working in a hot, humid atmosphere since this leads to wetness from
body perspiration. Fatal shocks have occurred at as low as 60 V and all
circuits must be considered dangerous.

All electrical equipment should be isolated before any work is done on
it. The circuit should then be tested to ensure that it is dead. Working
near to live equipment should be avoided if at all possible. Tools with
insulated handles should be used to minimise risks.

The treatment of anyone suffering from severe electric shock must be
rapid if it is to be effective. First they must be removed from contact with
the circuit by isolating it or using a non-conducting material to drag
them away. Electric shock results in a stopping of the heart and every
effort must be made to get it going again. Apply any accepted means of
artificial respiration to bring about revival.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 278 ---
Chapter 15
Instrumentation and control

All machinery must operate within certain desired parameters.
Instrumentation enables the parameters—pressure, temperature, and
so on—to be measured or displayed against a scale. A means of control is
also required in order to change or alter the displayed readings to meet
particular requirements. Control must be manual, the opening or
closing of a valve, or automatic, where a change in the system parameter
results in actions which return the value to that desired without human
involvement. The various display devices used for measurement of
system parameters will first be examined and then the theory and
application of automatic control.

Pressure measurement

The measurement of pressure may take place from one of two possible
datums, depending upon the type of instrument used. Absolute pressure is
a total measurement using zero pressure as datum. Gauge pressure is a
measurement above the atmospheric pressure which is used as a datum.
To express gauge pressure as an absolute value it is therefore necessary
to add the atmospheric pressure.

Manometer

A U-tube manometer is shown in Figure 15.1. One end is connected to
the pressure source; the other is open to atmosphere. The liquid in the
tube may be water or mercury and it will be positioned as shown. The
excess of pressure above atmospheric wil be shown as the difference in
liquid levels; this instrument therefore measures gauge pressure. It is
usually used for low value pressure readings such as air pressures.
Where two different system pressures are applied, this instrument will
measure differential pressure.

279

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 279 ---
280 Instrumentation and control

System Atmospheric
. pressure
h Scale
Liquid

h = system pressure (gauge value) Figure 15.1 U-tube manometer

Barometer

The mercury barometer is a straight tube type of manometer. A glass
capillary tube is sealed at one.end, filled with mercury and then inverted
in a small bath of mercury (Figure 15.2), Almost vacuum conditions exist
above the column of mercury, which is supported by atmospheric

Datum gay
inter F
pointer ff Leather bag
containing

mercury

Adjusting
screw Figure 15.2 Mercury barometer

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 280 ---
Instrumentation and control 281

Spring

Evacuated corrugated cylinder Pointer

Linkage
: Scale

——3

Figure 15.3 Aneroid barometer

pressure acting on the mercury in the container. An absolute reading of
atmospheric pressure is thus given.

The aneroid barometer uses an evacuated corrugated cylinder to detect
changes in atmospheric pressure (Figure 15.3). The cylinder centre
tends to collapse as atmospheric pressure increases or is lifted by the
spring as atmospheric pressure falls. A series of linkages transfers the
movement to a pointer moving over a scale.

Bourdon tube

This is probably the most commonly used gauge pressure measuring
instrument and is shown in Figure 15.4. It is made up of an elliptical

Scale

Bourdon tube

Pointer OG

“ Tube section
Spring

Adjustable
linkage

System
pressure

Figure 15.4 Bourdon tube pressure gauge

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 281 ---
282 Instrumentation and control

section tube formed into a C-shape and sealed at one end. The sealed
end, which is free to move, has a linkage arrangement which will move a
pointer over a scale. The applied pressure acts within the tube entering
through the open end, which is fixed in place. The pressure within the
tube causes it to change in cross section and attempt to straighten out
with a resultant movement of the free end, which registers as a needle
movement on the scale. Other arrangements of the tube in a helical or
spiral form are sometimes used, with the operating principle being the
same.

While the reference or zero value is usually atmospheric, to give gauge
pressure readings, this gauge can be used to read vacuum pressure
values.

Other devices

Diaphragms or bellows may be used for measuring gauge or differential
pressures. Typical arrangements are shown in Figure 15.5. Movement
of the diaphragm or bellows is transferred by a linkage to a needle or
pointer display.

Linkage to pointer

System reading differential
pressure pressure
Pt
“ Diaphragm
System
pressure
P2
(a)
Linkage to pointer
reading differential
pressure
System _—-
pressure
Pi
Bellows

System
pressure
P2
Figure 15.5 (a) Diaphragm pressure gauge;
(b) (b) bellows pressure gauge

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 282 ---
Instrumentation and control 283

The piezoelectric pressure transducer is a crystal which, under
pressure, produces an electric current which varies with the pressure.
This current is then provided to a unit which displays it as a pressure
value.

Temperature measurement

Temperature measurement by instruments will give a value in degrees
Celsius (°C). This scale of measurement is normally used for all readings
and temperature values required except when dealing with theoretical
calculations involving the gas laws, when absolute values are required
(see Appendix).

Liquid-in-glass thermometer

Various liquids are used in this type of instrument, depending upon the
temperature range, e.g. mercury —35°C to +350°C, alcohol —80°C to
+70°C. An increase in temperature causes the liquid to rise up the
narrow glass stem and the reading is taken from a scale on the glass
(Figure 15.6). High-temperature-measuring mercury liquid thermo-
meters will have the space above the mercury filled with nitrogen under
pressure.

Scale.

Glass
stem

Liquid

Bulb
Figure 15.6 Liquid-in-glass thermometer

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 283 ---
284 Instrumentation and control

Liquid-in-metal thermometer

The use of a metal bulb and capillary bourdon tube filled with liquid
offers advantages of robustness and a wide temperature range. The use
of mercury, for instance, provides a range from —39°C to +650°C. The
bourdon tube may be spiral or helical and on increasing temperature it
tends to straighten. The free end movement is transmitted through
linkages to a pointer moving over a scale.

Bimetallic strip thermometers

A bimetallic strip is made up of two different metals firmly bonded
together. When a temperature change occurs different amounts of
expansion occur in the two metals, causing a bending or twisting of the
strip. A helical coil of bimetallic material with one end fixed is used in
one form of thermometer (Figure 15.7). The coiling or uncoiling of the

Pointer

Scale

Spindle

. End
Helical fixed to
bimetallic spindle
strip

Figure 15.7 Bimetallic strip thermometer

helix with temperature change will cause movement of a pointer fitted
to the free end of the bimetallic strip. The choice of metals for the strip
will determine the range, which can be from —30°C to +550°C.

Thermocouple

The thermocouple is a type of electrical thermometer. When two
different metals are joined to form a closed circuit and exposed. to
different temperatures at their junction a current will flow which can be
used to measure temperature. The arrangement used is shown in Figure
15.8, where extra wires or compensating leads are introduced to
complete the circuit and include the indicator. As long as the two ends A
and B are at the same temperature the thermoelectric effect is not
influenced. The appropriate choice of metals will enable temperature
ranges from —200°C to +1400°C.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 284 ---
Instrumentation and control 285

Temperature
indicator

Hot Ceramic
junction insulator

Metal
sheath

Figure 15.8 Thermocouple

Radiation pyrometer

A pyrometer is generally considered to be a high-temperature
measuring thermometer. In the optical, or disappearing filament, type
shown in Figure 15.9, radiation from the heat source is directed into the
unit. The current through a heated filament lamp is adjusted until, when
viewed through the telescope, it seems to disappear. The radiation from
the lamp and from the heat source are therefore the same. The current
through the lamp is a measure of the temperature of the heat source,

Absorption Filament
screen ‘amp Monochromatic
filter

Light from
hot body

tyyye

resistance

@ oO

Too high or Correct
too low

Power
Filament matching supply
Figure 15.9 Optical pyrometer

and the ammeter is calibrated in units of temperature. The absorption
screen is used to absorb some of the radiant energy from the heat source
and thus extend the measuring range of the instrument. The
monochromatic filter produces single-colour, usually red, light to
simplify filament radiation matching.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 285 ---
286 Instrumentation and control

Thermistor

This is a type of electrical thermometer which uses resistance change to
measure temperature. The thermistor is a semi-conducting material
made up of finely divided copper to which is added cobalt, nickel and
manganese oxides. The mixture is formed under pressure into various
shapes, such as beads or rods, depending upon the application. They are
usually glass coated or placed under a thin metal cap.

A change in temperature causes a fall in the thermistor resistance
which can be measured in an electric circuit and a reading relating to
temperature can be given. Their small size and high sensitivity are
particular advantages. A range of measurement from —250°C to
+1500°C is possible.

Level measurement
Float operated

A float is usually a hollow ball or cylinder whose movement as the liquid
surface rises or falls is transmitted to an indicator. A chain or wire
usually provides the linkage to the indicator. Float switches may be used
for high or low indication, pump starting, etc., where electrical contacts
are made or broken, depending upon the liquid level.

Sight or gauge glasses

Various types of sightglass are used to display liquid level in storage
tanks. The simple boiler gauge glass referred to in Chapter 4 is typical of
such devices.

Pneumatic gauge

This is a device which uses a mercury manometer in conjunction with a
hemispherical bell and piping to measure tank level. The arrangement is
shown in Figure 15.10. A hemispherical bell is fitted near the bottom of
the tank and connected by small bore piping to the mercury manometer.
A selector cock enables one manometer to be connected to a number of
tanks, usually a pair. A three-way cock is fitted to air, gauge and vent
positions. With the cock at the ‘air’ position the system is filled with
compressed air. The cock is then turned to ‘gauge’ when the tank
contents will further pressurise the air in the system and a reading will
be given on the manometer which corresponds to the liquid level. The
cock is turned to ‘vent’ after the reading has been taken.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 286 ---
Instrumentation and control 287

N Menometer

Hemispherical

bell cock

Figure 15.10 Pneumatic gauge

Flow measurement

Flow measurement can be quantity measurement, where the amount of
liquid which has passed in a particular time is given, or a flow velocity
which, when multiplied by the pipe area, will give a rate of flow.

Quantity measurement
A rotating pair of intermeshing vanes may be used which are physically
displaced by the volume of liquid passing through (Figure 15.11(a)). The

inlet
Rotating |

vane
ng Rotating

‘vane

Casing

|

Outlet
(a) Intermeshing vanes

Drive mechanism

Housing to scale reading
1

‘Support
Flow

Rotor

(b) rotating element Figure 15.11 Flow quantity measurement

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 287 ---
288 Instrumentation and conwol

number of rotations will give a measure of the total quantity of liquid
that has passed. The rotation transfer may be by mechanical means, such
as gear wheels, or the use of a magnetic coupling.

Another method is the use of a rotating element which is set in motion
by the passing liquid (Figure 15.11(b)). A drive mechanism results in a
reading on a scale of total quantity. The drive mechanism may be
mechanical, using gear wheels or electrical where the rotating element
contains magnets which generate a current in a pick-up coil outside the

pipe.

Flow velocity measurement
The venturi tube

This consists of a conical convergent entry tube, a cylindrical centre tube
and a conical divergent outlet. The arrangement is shown in Figure
15.12. Pressure tappings led to a manometer will give a difference in

Entry tube i
"y Centre tube Exit
Flow

a al

Pressure
tapping

‘Head of liquid related to
fluid flow velocity

Figure 15.12 Venturi tube

head related to the fluid flow velocity. The operating principle is one of
pressure conversion to velocity which occurs in the venturi tube and
results in a lower pressure in the cylindrical centre tube.

The orifice plate

This consists of a plate with an axial hole placed in the path of the liquid.
The hole edge is square facing the incoming liquid and bevelled on the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 288 ---
Instrumentation and control 289

Orifice
plate

Pressure
tapping

Head of liquid
related to
fluid flow velocity

Figure 15.13 Orifice plate

outlet side (Figure 15.13). Pressure tappings before and after the orifice
plate will give a difference in head on a manometer which can be related
to liquid flow velocity.

Other variables
Moving coil meter

Electrical measurements of current or voltage are usually made by a
moving coil meter. The meter construction is the same for each but its
arrangement in the circuit is different.

A moving coil meter consists of a coil wound on a soft iron cylinder
which is pivoted and free to rotate (Figure 15.14). Two hair springs are
used, one above and one below, to provide a restraining force and also to

Figure 15.14 Moving coil meter

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 289 ---
290 Instrumentation and control

conduct the current to the coil. The moving coil assembly is surrounded
by a permanent magnet which produces a radial magnetic field. Current
passed through the coil will result in a force which moves the coil against
the spring force to a position which, by a pointer on a scale, will read
current or voltage.

The instrument is directional and must therefore be correctly
connected in the circuit. As a result of the directional nature of
alternating current it cannot be measured directly with this instrument,
but the use of a rectifying circuit will overcome this problem.

Tachometers

A number of speed measuring devices are in use utilising either
mechanical or electrical principles in their operation.

Mechanical

A simple portable device uses the governor principle to obtain a
measurement of speed.

Two masses are fixed on leaf springs which are fastened to the driven
shaft at one end and a sliding collar at the other (Figure 15.15). The

Spring

Mass

Siiding
collar

Driven
shaft

~) Figure 15.15 Mechanical tachometer

sliding collar, through a link mechanism, moves a pointer over a scale.
As the driven shaft increases in speed the weights move out under
centrifugal force, causing an axial movement of the sliding collar. This
in turn moves the pointer to give a reading of speed.

Electrical

The drag cup generator device uses an aluminium cup which is rotated
in a laminated iron electromagnet stator (Figure 15.16). The stator has

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 290 ---
Instrumentation and control 291

ae Insulation
Winding Stator s

A.C.supply

Figure 15.16 Drag cup generator-type tachometer

two separate windings at right angles to each other. An a.c. supply is
provided to one winding and eddy currents are set up in the rotating
aluminium cup. This results in an induced e.m.f. in the other stator
winding which is proportional to the speed of rotation. The output
voltage is measured on a voltmeter calibrated to read in units of speed.

Tachogenerators provide a voltage value which is proportional to the
speed and may be a.c. or d.c. instruments. The d.c. tachogenerator is a
small d.c. generator with a permanent field. The output voltage is
proportional to speed and may be measured on a voltmeter calibrated in
units of speed. The a.c. tachogenerator is a small brushless alternator
with a rotating multi-pole permanent magnet. The output voltage is
again measured by a voltmeter although the varying frequency will
affect the accuracy of this instrument.

Various pick-up devices can be used in conjunction with a digital
counter to give a direct reading of speed. An inductive pick-up
tachometer is shown in Figure 15.17(a). As the individual teeth pass the
coil they induce an e.m.f. pulse which is appropriately modified and
then fed to a digital counter. A capacitive pick-up tachometer is shown in
Figure 15.17(b). As the rotating vane passes between the plates a
capacitance change occurs in the form of a pulse. This is modified and
then fed to the digital counter.

Torsionmeters

The measurement of torsion is usually made by electrical means. The
twisting or torsion of a rotating shaft can be measured in a number of
different ways to give a value of applied torque. Shaft power can then be
calculated by multiplying the torque by the rotational speed of the shaft.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 291 ---
292 Instrumentation and control

Signal Digital
modifier counter
Toothed
wheel
{a) inductive

Rotating
vane

capacitor | | — | co |
plate

Signal Digital
modifier counter
(b) Capacitive

Figure 15.17 Pick-up tachometers, (a) inductive; (b) capacitive

Strain gauge torsionmeter

With this device four strain gauges are mounted onto the shaft, as shown
in Figure 15.18. The twisting of the shaft as a result of an applied torque
results in a change in resistance of the strain gauge system or bridge.
Brushes and sliprings are used to take off the electrical connections and
complete the circuit, as shown. More recently use has been made of the
resistance change converted to a frequency change. A frequency
converter attached to the shaft is used for this purpose: this frequency

Strain

gauge
R2 RI
R3 R4

Slip rings
R1 R2
Meter Supply
readin
stain voltage
R4 R3

Figure 15.18 Strain gauge torsionmeter

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 292 ---
Instrumentation and control 293

signal is then transmitted without contact to a digital frequency receiver.
When a torque is applied to the shaft, readings of strain and hence
torque can be made.

Differential transformer torsionmeter

Two castings are used to provide a magnetic circuit with a variable air
gap. The two are clamped to the shaft, as shown in Figure 15.19, and
joined to each other by thin steel strips. The joining strips will transmit
tension but offer no resistance to rotational movement of the two

Thin steel
strips

Transformer
soft iron core

Variable
air gap

Coils of
differential
transformer

Figure 15.19 Differential transformer torsionmeter

castings with respect to each other. A differential transformer is fitted
between the two castings, the two coils being wound on one casting and
the iron core being part of the other. Another differential transformer is
fitted in the indicating circuit, its air gap being adjusted by a micrometer
screw. The primary coils of the two transformers are joined in series and
energised by an a.c. supply. The secondary coils are connected so that
the induced e.m.f.s are opposed and when one transformer has an air
gap different to the other a current will flow.

When a torque is applied to the shaft the air gap of the shaft
transformer will change, resulting in a current flow. The indicator unit
transformer air gap is then adjusted until no current flows. The air gaps
in both transformers must now be exactly equal. The applied torque is
directly proportional to the width of the air gap or the micrometer screw
movement. Shaft power is found by multiplying the micrometer screw
reading by the shaft speed and a constant for the meter.

Viscosity measurement

Viscosity control of fuels is essential if correct atomisation and
combustion is to take place. Increasing the temperature of a fuel will

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 293 ---
294 Instrumentation and control

Pressure tapping
led to differential
pressure gauge

Constant speed
J \ gear pump

Gear pump
suction

Outlet

Oilflow

Damping Measuring
capillary capillary

(a) Inlet

Thermometer

Gear pump
motor drive

Pressure
tappings
led to
differential
pressure
gauge or

>. transmitter

Capillary
oil
outlet

Measuring
capillary

capillary

(b) Oil
inlet

Figure 15.20 Viscosity sensor, (a) diagrammatic; (b) actual

reduce its viscosity, and vice-versa. As a result of the varying properties
of marine fuels, often within one tank, actual viscosity must be
continuously measured and then corrected by temperature adjustment.
The sensing device is shown in Figure 15.20. A small constant speed
gear pump forces a fixed quantity of oil through a capillary (narrow

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 294 ---
Instrumentation and control 295

bore) tube. The liquid flow in the capillary is such that the difference in
pressure readings taken before the capillary and after it is related to the
oil viscosity. A differential pressure gauge is calibrated to read viscosity
and the pressure values are used to operate the heater control to
maintain some set viscosity value.

Salinometer

Water purity, in terms of the absence of salts, is essential where it is to be
used as boiler feed. Pure water has a high resistance to the flow of
electricity whereas salt water has a high electrical conductivity. A
measure of conductivity, in siemens, is a measure of purity.

The salinity measuring unit shown in Figure 15.21 uses two small cells
each containing a platinum and a gunmetal electrode. The liquid sample
passes. through the two cells and any current flow as a result of
conductance is measured. Since conductivity rises with temperature a

Gunmetal ring

CS “a: aae

Insulating tube

Platinum ring

SSerrereesscesyguceyeet

Insulating tub

COMME;

qh

ST}

VARAAAEAR RERUN TERRE

Gunmetal ring RAW Be ae

Flow

Figure 15.21 Salinometer

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 295 ---
296 Instrumentation and control

compensating resistor is incorporated in the measuring circuit. The
insulating plunger varies the water flow in order to correct values to
20°C for a convenient measuring unit, the microsiemens/cm?® or dionic
unit. A de-gassifier should be fitted upstream of this unit to remove
dissolved carbon dioxide which will cause errors in measurement.

Oxygen analyser

The measuring of oxygen content in an atmosphere is important,
particularly when entering enclosed spaces. Also inert gas systems use
exhaust gases which must be monitored to ensure that their oxygen
content is below 5%. One type of instrument used to measure oxygen
content utilises the fact that oxygen is attracted by a magnetic field, that
is, it is paramagnetic.

A measuring cell uses a dumb-bell shaped wire which rotates in a
magnetic field. The presence of oxygen will affect the magnetic field
and cause rotation of the dumb-bell. The current required to align the
dumb-bell is a measure of the oxygen concentration in the cell.

The sampling system for an inert gas main is shown in Figure 15.22.
‘The probe at the tap-off point has an integral filter to remove dust. The

PRESSURE REGULATING
VALVE

VACUUM

MEASURING
CELL

SEPARATOR

VALVE
CALIBRATIO

OXYGEN
ANALYSER

ANALYSER
BUBBLER

Figure 15.22 Oxygen analyser

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 296 ---
Instrumentation and control 297

gas then passes through a separator, a three-way valve and a flow valve.
The gas sample, after further separation and filtering, passes to the
measuring cell and part of it is bypassed. The flow valve is used to obtain
the correct flow through the measuring cell and a meter provides the
reading of oxygen content. The three-way valve permits the introduc-
tion of a zeroing gas (nitrogen) and a span gas (air). The span gas gives a
21% reading as a calibration check.

Oil-in-water monitor

Current regulations with respect to the discharge of oily water set limits
of concentration between 15 and 100 parts per million. A monitor is
required in order to measure these values and provide both continuous
records and an alarm where the permitted level is exceeded.

The principle used is that of ultra-violet fluorescence. This is the
emission of light by a molecule that has absorbed light. During the short
interval between absorption and emission, energy is lost and light of a
longer wavelength is emitted. Oil fluoresces more readily than water and
this provides the means for its detection.

Diverting
valves
— —e
From Overboard
tanks discharge
Monitor

value
Ultra
violet

1
1
1
i
i e) Desired
!
i}
'
; lamp

electric
cell

Drain to
slop tank

Figure 15.23 Oil-in-water monitoring system

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 297 ---
298 Instrumentation and control

A sample is drawn off from the overboard discharge and passes
through a sample cell (Figure 15.23). An ultra-violet light is directed at
the sample and the fluorescence is monitored by a photoelectric cell.
The measured value is compared with the maximum desired value in
the controller/recorder. Where an excessive level of contamination is
detected an alarm is sounded and diverting valves are operated. The
discharging liquid is then passed to a slop tank.

Control theory

To control a device or system is to be able to adjust or vary the
parameters which affect it. This can be achieved manually or
automatically, depending upon the arrangements made in the system.
All forms of control can be considered to act in a loop. The basic
elements present in the loop are a detector, a comparator/controller and
a correcting unit, all of which surround the process and form the loop
(Figure 15.24). This arrangement is an automatic closed loop if the
elements are directly connected to one another and the control action
takes place without human involvement. A manual closed loop would
exist if one element were replaced by a human operator.

It can be seen therefore that in a closed loop control system the control
action is dependent on the output. A detecting or measuring element
will obtain a signal related to this output which is fed to the transmitter.
From the transmitter the signal is then passed to a comparator. The
comparator will contain some set or desired value of the controlled

Desired
value

convo

Regulating
unit

Figure 15.24 Automatic closed loop control

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 298 ---
Instrumentation and control 299

condition which is compared to the measured value signal. Any
deviation or difference between the two values will result in an output
signal to the controller. The controller will then take action in a manner
related to the deviation and provide a signal to a correcting unit. The
correcting unit will then increase or decrease its effect on the system to
achieve the desired value of the system variable. The comparator is
usually built in to the controller unit.

The transmitter, controller and regulating unit are supplied with an
operating medium in order to function. The operating medium may be
compressed air, hydraulic oil or electricity. For each medium various
types of transmitting devices, controllers and regulating units are used.

Transmitters
Pneumatic

Many pneumatic devices use a nozzle and flapper system to give a
variation in the compressed air signal. A pneumatic transmitter is shown
in Figure 15.25. If the flapper moves away from the nozzle then the
transmitted or output pressure will fall to a low value. If the flapper
moves towards the nozzle then the transmitted pressure will rise to almost
the supply pressure. The transmitted pressure is approximately
proportional to the movement of the flapper and thus the change in the
measured variable. The flapper movement will be very minute and
where measurement of a reasonable movement is necessary a system of

To measuring
uni
Nozzle it

Orifice
Air

supply _ Flapper

| Pivot
Output
Figure 15.25 Position balance transmitter

levers and linkages must be introduced. This in turn leads to errors in
the system and little more than on-off control.

Improved accuracy is obtained when a feedback bellows is added to
assist in flapper positioning (Figure 15.26). The measured value acts on

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 299 ---
300 Instrumentation and control

one end of the pivoted flapper against an adjustable spring which
enables the measuring range to be changed. The opposite end of the
flapper is acted upon by the feedback bellows and the nozzle. In
operation a change in the measured variable may cause the flapper to
approach the nozzle and thus build up the output signal pressure. The
pressure in the feedback bellows also builds up, tending to push the
flapper away from the nozzle, i.e. a negative feedback. An equilibrium

Measured variable
pressure signal Output

Range
spring

Figure 15.26 Force balance transmitter with feedback

position will be set up giving an output signal corresponding to the
measured variable.

Most pneumatic transmitters will have relays fitted which magnify or
amplify the output signals to reduce time lags in the system and permit
signal transmission over considerable distances. Relays can also be used
for mathematical operations, such as adding, subtracting, multiplying or
dividing of signals. Such devices are known as ‘summing’ or ‘computing
relays’.

Electrical

Simple electrical circuits may be used where the measured variable
causes a change in resistance which is read as a voltage or current and
displayed in its appropriate units.

Another method is where the measured variable in changing creates a
potential difference which, after amplification, drives a reversible motor
to provide a display and in moving also reduces the potential difference
to zero.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 300 ---
Instrumentation and control 301

Alternating current positioning motors can be used as transmitters
when arranged as shown in Figure 15.27. Both rotors are supplied from
the same supply source. The stators are star wound and when the two
rotor positions coincide there is no current flow since the e.m.f.s of both
are equal and opposite. When the measured variable causes a change in

Transmitter

A.C. supply

Figure 15.27 A.C. positioning motors
Measured variable
pressure signal

Beam
/ Feedback

force
Variable inductor A Pivot

Electromagnet

Output
signal

a.c. supply

Figure 15.28 Force balance electronic transmitter

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 301 ---
302 Instrumentation and control

the transmitter rotor position, the two e.m.f.s will be out of balance. A
current will flow and the receiver rotor will turn until it aligns with the
transmitter. The receiver rotor movement will provide a display of the
measured variable.

An electrical device can also be used as a transmitter (Figure 15.28).
The measured variable acts on one end of a pivoted beam causing a
change in a magnetic circuit. The change in the magnetic circuit results
in a change in output current from the oscillator amplifier, and the
oscillator output current operates an electromagnet so that it produces a
negative feedback force which opposes the measured variable change.
An equilibrium position results and provides an output signal.

Hydraulic

The telemotor of a hydraulically actuated steering gear is one example
of a hydraulic transmitter. A complete description of the unit and its
operation is given in Chapter 12.

Controller action

The transmitted output signal is received by the controller which must
then undertake some corrective action. There will however be various
time lags or delays occurring during first the measuring and then the
transmission of a signal indicating a change. A delay will also occur in the
action of the controller. These delays produce what is known as the
transfer function of the unit or item, that is, the relationship between the
output and input signals.

The control system is designed to maintain some output value at a
constant desired value, and a knowledge of the various lags or delays in
the system is necessary in order to achieve the desired control. The
controller must therefore rapidly compensate for these system variations
and ensure a steady output as near to the desired value as practicable.

Two-step or on-off

In this, the simplest of controller actions, two extreme positions of the
controller are possible, either on or off. If the controller were, for
example, a valve it would be either open or closed. A heating system is
considered with the control valve regulating the supply of heating steam.
The controller action and system response is shown in Figure 15.29. As
the measured value rises above its desired value the valve will close.
System lags will result in a continuing temperature rise which eventually
peaks and then falls below the desired value. The valve will then open

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 302 ---
Instrumentation and control 303

Desired
Measured value

Valve
position

Temperature

Closed

Time

Figure 15.29 Two-step or on-off control

again and the temperature will cease to fall and will rise again. This form
of control is acceptable where a considerable deviation from the desired
value is allowed.

Continuous action
Proportional action

This is a form of continuous control where any change in controller
output is proportional to the deviation between the controlled condition
and the desired value. The proportional band is the amount by which the
input signal value must change to move the correcting unit between its
extreme positions. The desired value is usually located at the centre of
the proportional band. Offset is a sustained deviation as a result of a load
change in the process. It is an inherent characteristic of proportional
control action. Consider, for example, a proportional controller
operating a feedwater valve supplying a boiler drum. If the steam
demand, i.e. load, increases then the drum level will fall. When the level
has dropped the feedwater valve will open. An equilibrium position will
be reached when the feedwater valve has opened enough to match the
new steam demand. The drum level, however, will have fallen to a new
value below the desired value, i.e. offset. See Figure 15.30.

Integral action

This type of controller action is used in conjunction with proportional
control in order to remove offset. Integral or reset action occurs when
the controller output varies at a rate proportional to the deviation

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 303 ---
304 Instrumentation and control

Boiler
load

Time

Figure 15.30 System response to proportional controller action

between the desired value and the measured value. The integral action
of a controller can usually be varied to achieve the required response in a
particular system.

Derivative action

Where a plant or system has long time delays between changes in the
measured value and their correction, derivative action may be applied.
This will be in addition to proportional and integral action. Derivative or
rate action is where the output signal change is proportional to the rate
of change of deviation. A considerable corrective action can therefore
take place for a small deviation which occurs suddenly. Derivative action
can also be adjusted within the controller.

Multiple-term controllers

The various controller actions in response to a process change are shown
in Figure 15.31. The improvement in response associated with the
addition of integral and derivative action can clearly be seen. Reference
is often made to the number of terms of a controller. This means the
various actions: proportional (P), integral (I), and derivative (D). A
three-term controller would therefore mean P+I+D, and two-term
usually P+I. A controller may be arranged to provide either split range
or cascade control, depending upon the arrangements in the control
system. These two types of control are described in the section dealing
with control systems.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 304 ---
Instrumentation and contol 305

Final condition

Initial condition

Proportional action
i

\
' Desired value
|

|
Proportional plus integral action

Desired value

Proportional plus integral plus derivative action

Time

Figure 15.31 System response

Controllers

The controller may be located close to the variable measuring point and
thus operate without the use of a transmitter. It may however be located
in a remote control room and receive a signal from a transmitter and
relay, as mentioned earlier. The controller is required to maintain some
system variable at a desired value regardless of load changes. It may also
indicate the system variable and enable the desired value to be changed.
Over a short range about the desired value the controller will generate a
signal to operate the actuating mechanism of the correcting unit. This
control signal may include proportional, integral and derivative actions,
as already described. Where all three are used it may be known as a
‘three-term’ controller.

A pneumatic three-term controller is shown in Figure 15.32. Any
variation between desired and measured values will result in a
movement of the flapper and change in the output pressure. If the

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 305 ---
306 Instrumentation and control

Output

Measured value Desired value

Orifice

—=— Supply

air

| ral
acti
valve

Figure 15.32 Pneumatic three-term controller

derivative action valve is open and the integral action valve closed, then
only proportional control occurs. It can be seen that as the flapper
moves towards the nozzle a pressure build-up will occur which will
increase the output pressure signal and also move the bellows so that the
flapper is moved away from the nozzle. This is then a negative feedback
which is proportional to the flapper or measured value movement.
When the integral action valve is opened, any change in output signal
pressure will affect the integral action bellows which will oppose the
feedback bellows movement. Varying the opening of the integral action
valve will alter the amount of integral action of the controller. Closing
the derivative action valve any amount would introduce derivative
action. This is because of the delay that would be introduced in the
provision of negative feedback for a sudden variable change which
would enable the output signal pressure to build up. If the measured
variable were to change slowly then the proportional action would have
time to build up and thus exert its effect.

An electronic three-term controller is shown in Figure 15.33. The
controller output signal is subjected to the various control actions, in this

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 306 ---
Instrumentation and control 307

. Regulating
ni i
Measuri 3 unit
movement mo! ent

input
potentiometer

Resistance R

Integral
capacitor

a.c. supply

Output signal

Figure 15.33 Electronic three-term controller

case by electronic components and suitable circuits. Any change in the
measured value will move the input potentiometer and upset the balance
of the control bridge. A voltage will then be applied to the amplifier and
the amplifier will provide an output signal which will result in a
movement of the output potentiometer. The balancing bridge will then
provide a voltage to the amplifier which equals that from the control
bridge. The amplifier output signal will then cease.

The output potentiometer movement is proportional to the deviation
between potentiometer positions, and movement will continue while the
deviation remains. Integral and derivative actions are obtained by the
resistances and capacitors in the circuit. With the integral capacitor fitted
while a deviation exists there will be a current through resistance R as a
result of the voltage across it. This current flow will charge the integral
capacitor and thus reduce the voltage across R. The output potentio-
meter must therefore continue moving until no deviation exists. No
offset can occur as it would if only proportional action took place.
Derivative action occurs as a result of current flow through the
derivative resistor which also charges the derivative capacitor. This
current flow occurs only while the balancing bridge voltage is changing,
but a larger voltage is required because of the derivative capacitor. The
derivative action thus results in a faster return to the equilibrium
position, as would be expected. The output potentiometer is moved by a
motor which also provides movement for a valve or other correcting unit
in the controlled process.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 307 ---
308 Instrumentation and control
Correcting unit

The controller output signal is fed to the correcting unit which then
alters some variable in order to return the system to its desired value.
This correcting unit may be a valve, a motor, a damper or louvre for a
fan or an electric contactor. Most marine control applications will involve
the actuation or operation of valves in order to regulate liquid flow.

Pneumatic control valve

A typical pneumatic control valve is shown in Figure 15.34. It can be
considered as made up of two parts—the actuator and the valve. In the
arrangement shown a flexible diaphragm forms a pressure tight
chamber in the upper half of the actuator and the controller signal is fed
in. Movement of the diaphragm results in a movement of the valve
spindle and the valve. The diaphragm movement is opposed by a spring
and is usually arranged so that the variation of controller output
corresponds to full travel of the valve.

The valve body is arranged to fit into the particular pipeline and
houses the valve and seat assembly. Valve operation may be direct acting
where increasing pressure on the diaphragm closes the valve. A reverse
acting valve opens as pressure on the diaphragm increases. The
diaphragm movement is opposed by a spring which will close or open
the valve in the event of air supply failure depending upon the action of
the valve.

The valve disc or plug may be single or double seated and have any of
a variety of shapes. The various shapes and types are chosen according
to the type of control required and the relationship between valve lift
and liquid flow.

A non-adjustable gland arrangement is usual. Inverted V-ring
packing is used to minimise the friction against the moving spindle.

In order to achieve accurate valve disc positioning and overcome the
effects of friction and unbalanced forces a valve positioner may be used.
The operating principle is shown in Figure 15.35. The controller signal
acts on a bellows which will move the flapper in relation to the nozzle.
This movement will alter the air pressure on the diaphragm which is
supplied via an orifice from a constant pressure supply. The diaphragm
movement will move the valve spindle and also the flapper. An
equilibrium position will be set up when the valve disc is correctly
positioned. This arrangement enables the use of a separate power
source to actuate the valve.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 308 ---
Instrumentation and control 309

Air inlet

— —

ae x oot {>

Flow

Figure 15.34 Pneumatically controlled valve

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 309 ---
316 Instrumentation and control

Air
To diaphragm
supply chamber on
{ valve
Orifice

Valve
stem

controller

Figure 15.35 Valve positioner

Actuator operation

The control signal to a correcting unit may be pneumatic, electric or
hydraulic. The actuating power may also be any one of these three and
not necessarily the same as the control medium.

Electrical control signals are usually of small voltage or current values
which are unable to effect actuator movement. Pneumatic or hydraulic
power would then be used for actuator operation.

A separate pneumatic power supply may be used even when the
control signal is pneumatic, as described in the previous section.

Hydraulic actuator power is used where large or out of balance forces
occur or when the correcting unit is of large dimensions itself. Hydraulic
control with separate hydraulic actuation is a feature of some types of
steering gear, as mentioned in Chapter 12.

Control systems
Boiler water level

A modern high-pressure, high-temperature watertube boiler holds a
small quantity of water and produces large quantities of steam. Very
careful control of the drum water level is therefore necessary. The
reactions of steam and water in the drum are complicated and require
a control system based on a number of measured elements.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 310 ---
Instrumentation and control Su

When a boiler is operating the water level in the gauge glass reads
higher than when the boiler is shut down. This is because of the
presence of steam bubbles in the water, a situation which is accepted in
normal practice. If however there occurs a sudden increase in steam
demand from the boiler the pressure in the drum will fall. Some of the
water present in the drum at the higher pressure will now ‘flash off and
become steam. These bubbles of steam will cause the drum level to rise.
The reduced mass of water in the drum will also result in more steam
being produced, which will further raise the water level. This effect is
known as ‘swell’. A level control system which used only level as a
measuring element would close in the feed control valve—when it
should be opening it.

When the boiler load returns to normal the drum pressure will rise
and steam bubble formation will reduce, causing a fall in water level.
Incoming colder feed water will further reduce steam bubble formation
and what is known as ‘shrinkage’ of the drum level will occur.

Steam from boiler

Steam
flow
transmitter

Feed water
control valve

Water level

Level
transmitter

Feed water
flow
transmitter

Differential
relay

Desired
value

P+
controller

Auto/manual
selector

Figure 15.36 Boiler water level control

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 311 ---
ova

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 312 ---
Set

course

Controller

Variable
displacement
pump

Amplifier

steering
gear

External
forces

Figure 15.46 Automatic steering system

Actual

course

Jonuos pue uonrusuNsuy

Be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 313 ---
524 instrumentation and control

ship’s actual course resulting in a feedback to the controller and
subsequent corrective action. The controller action must be correctly
adjusted for the particular external conditions to ensure that excessive
rudder movement does not occur.

Electrical supply control

The automatic provision of electrical power to meet varying load
demands can be achieved by performing the following functions
automatically:

1. Prime mover start up.

2. Synchronising of incoming machine with bus-bars.

3. Load sharing between alternators.

4. Safety and operational checks on power supply and equipment in
operation.

5. Unloading, stopping and returning to standby of surplus machines.

6. Preferential tripping of non-essential loads under emergency
conditions and their reinstating when acceptable.

A logic flow diagram for such a system is given in Figure 15.47. Each
of three machines is considered able to supply 250kW. A loading in
excess of this will result in the start up and synchronising of another

tial

Return to
stand by
condition

Open
circuit
breaker

<250 kw

Figure 15,47 Automatic load control of alternators

machine. Should the load fall to a value where a running machine is
unnecessary it will be unloaded, stopped and returned to the standby
condition. If the system should overload through some fault, such as a
machine not starting, an alarm will be given and preferential tripping
will occur of non-essential loads. Should the system totally fail the
emergency alternator will start up and supply essential services and
lighting through its switchboard.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 314 ---
Instrumentation and control 325
Integrated control

The various control and monitoring systems described so far may be
integrated in order to enable more efficient ship operation and reduce
manning. Machinery control systems are being combined with
navigation and cargo control systems to bring about ‘Efficient Ship’
integrated control systems. Combining previously separate sources of
data regarding, for example, ship speed and fuel consumption, enables
optimising of ship or engine operating parameters.

An Integrated Control System would be made up of a Bridge System,
a Cargo Control System, a Machinery Control System and possibly a Ship
Management System.

The Bridge System would include an automatic radar plotting aid
display, an electronic chart table, an autopilot, a gyro, log, and echo
sounder. The Cargo Control System will vary according to the type of
vessel, but will enable loading calculations, cargo management, ballast
control and data logging. The Machinery Control System will combine
various control systems to enable surveillance to UMS requirements,
performance and condition monitoring, generator control and
automatic data logging. Ship Management would involve administrative
record keeping, word processing, stock control and maintenance
planning.

Workstations with computers, monitors and keyboards would be
provided in the appropriate locations, such as the machinery control
room, on the bridge, in the cargo control room and various ship’s
offices. A network would connect the various workstations and enable
the exchange of information between them.

Inputs from the various monitored items of equipment would be fed
to Lecal Scanner and Control Units (LSCU), which would contain a
microprocessor and be effectively a microcomputer. The LSCU is part of
a local control loop which can function independently, if necessary. The
LSCUs are connected up to a central computer which can interface with
them and would act as the workstation for the particular system.

Integrating the various systems enables optimal control of a ship and
improved efficiency. Fuel consumption figures could be monitored, for
example and used to predict an appropriate time to drydock the vessel
as hull resistance increased due to fouling. Condition monitoring of
machinery would enable maintenance schedules to be planned in order
to minimise breakdowns and repair costs. Satellite communications will
also enable data to be relayed from ship to shore for analysis by
office-based technical staff.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 315 ---
Chapter 16.
Engineering materials

A knowledge of the properties of a material is essential to every
engineer. This enables suitable material choice for a_ particular
application, appropriate design of the components or parts, and their
protection, where necessary, from corrosion or damage.

Material properties

The behaviour of a metal under various conditions of loading is often
described by the use of certain terms:

Tensile strength. This is the main single criterion with reference to metals.
It is a measure of the material’s ability to withstand the loads upon it in
service. Terms such as ‘stress’, ‘strain’, ‘ultimate tensile strength’, ‘yield
stress’ and ‘proof stress’ are all different methods of quantifying the
tensile strength of the material.

Ductility. This is the ability of a material to undergo permanent change in
shape without rupture or loss of strength.

Brittleness. A material that is liable to fracture rather than deform when
absorbing energy (such as impact) is said to be brittle. Strong materials
may also be brittle.

Malleability. A material that can be shaped by beating or rolling is said to
be malleable. A similar property to ductility.

Plasticity. The ability to deform permanently when load is applied.
Elasticity. The ability to return to the original shape or size after having
been deformed or loaded.

Toughness. A combination of strength and the ability to absorb energy or
deform plastically. A condition between brittleness and softness.
Hardness. A material’s ability to resist plastic deformation usually by
indentation.

Testing of materials

Various tests are performed on materials in order to quantify their
properties and determine their suitability for various engineering

326

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 316 ---
Engineering materials 327

applications. For measurement purposes a number of terms are used,
with ‘stress’ and ‘strain’ being the most common. Stress, or more
correctly ‘intensity of stress’, is the force acting on a unit area of the
material. Strain is the deforming of a material due to stress. When a
force is applied to a material which tends to shorten or compress it, the
stress is termed ‘compressive stress’. When the force applied tends to
lengthen the material it is termed ‘tensile stress’. When the force tends to
cause the various parts of the material to slide over one another the
stress is termed ‘shear stress’.

Tensile test

A tensile test measures a material’s strength and ductility. A specially
shaped specimen of standard size is gripped in the jaws of a testing
machine, and a load gradually applied to draw the ends of the specimen
apart such that it is subject to tensile stress. The original test length of
the specimen, Lj, is known and for each applied load the new length, Lo,
can be measured. The specimen will be found to have extended by some
small amount, Lg—L,. This deformation, expressed as

extension
original length

is known as the linear strain.

Additional loading of the specimen will produce results which show a
uniform increase of extension until the yield point is reached. Up to the
yield point or elastic limit, the removal of load would have resulted in the
specimen returning to its original size. The stress and strain values for
various loads can be shown on a graph as in Figure 16.1. If testing

Stress

Ultimate

i Fre r
tensile stress ‘acture

Yield
stress

Yield point or
elastic limit

Strain

Figure 16.1 Stress strain curve

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 317 ---
328 Engineering materials

continues beyond the yield point the specimen will ‘neck’ or reduce in
cross section. The load values divided by the original cross section would
give the shape shown. The highest stress value is known as the ‘ultimate
tensile stress’ (UTS) of the material.

Within the elastic limit, stress is proportional to strain, and therefore

stress

— = constant

strain

This constant is known as the ‘modulus of elasticity’ (E) of the
material. The yield stress is the value of stress at the yield point. Where a
clearly defined yield point is not obtained, a proof stress value is given.
This is obtained by drawing a line parallel to the stress—strain line at a
value of strain, usually 0.1%. The intersection of the two lines is
considered the proof stress (Figure 16.2).

Stress
Ultimate
tensile stress Fracture

Proof
stress

> f~0.1% strain Strain

Figure 16.2 Stress strain curve—material without a definite yield point

A ‘factor of safety’ is often specified for materials where this is the
ratio of ultimate tensile strength to working stress, and is always a value
greater than unity.

UTS

factor of safety =—————___
working stress

Impact test

This test measures the energy absorbed by a material when it is
fractured. There are a number of impact tests available; the Charpy
vee-notch test is usually specified. The test specimen is a square section

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 318 ---
Engineering materials 329

Scriker

Figure 16.3 Impact test

bar with a vee-notch cut in the centre of one face. The specimen is
mounted horizontally with the notch axis vertical (Figure 16.3). The test
involves the specimen being struck opposite the notch and fractured. A
striker or hammer on the end of a swinging pendulum provides the blow
which breaks the specimen. The energy absorbed by the material in
fracturing is measured by. the machine.

Hardness test

The hardness test measures a material’s resistance to indentation. A
hardened steel ball or a diamond point is pressed onto the material
surface for a given time with a given load. The hardness number is a
function of the load and the area of the indentation. The value may be
given as a Brinell number or Vickers Pyramid number, depending upon
the machine used.

Creep test

Creep is the slow plastic deformation of a material under a constant
stress. The test uses a specimen similar to that for a tensile test. A
constant load is applied and the temperature is maintained constant.
Accurate measurements of the increase in length are taken often over
very long periods. The test is repeated for various loads and the material
tested at what will be its temperature in service. Creep rate and limiting
stress values can thus be found.

Fatigue test

Fatigue failure results from a repeatedly applied fluctuating stress which
may be a lower value than the tensile strength of the material. A specially
shaped specimen is gripped at one end and rotated by a fast revolving
electric motor. The free end has a load suspended from it and a ball race
is fitted to prevent the load from turning. The specimen, as it turns, is
therefore subjected to an alternating tensile and compressive stress. The

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 319 ---
330 Engineering materials

stress reversals are counted and the machine is run until the specimen
breaks. The load and the number of reversals are noted and the
procedure repeated. The results will provide a limiting fatigue stress or

fatigue limit for the material.

Bend test

The bend test determines the ductility of a material. A piece of material
is bent through 180° around a former. No cracks should appear on the
material surface.

Non-destructive testing

A number of tests are available that do not damage the material under
test and can therefore be used on the finished item if required. These
tests are mainly examinations of the material to ensure that it is defect
free and they do not, as such, measure properties.

Various penetrant liquids can be used to detect surface cracks. The
penetrant liquid will be chosen for its ability to enter the smallest of
cracks and remain there. A means of detecting the penetrant is then
required which may be an ultra-violet light where a fluorescent
penetrant is used. Alternatively a red dye penetrant may be used and
after the surface is wiped clean, a white developer is applied.

Radiography, the use of X-rays or y-rays to darken a photographic
plate, can be used to detect internal flaws in materials. The shadow
image produced will show any variations in material density, gas or solid
inclusions, etc.

Ultrasonic testing is the use of high-frequency sound waves which
reflect from the far side of the material. The reflected waves can be
displayed on a cathode ray oscilloscope. Any defects will also result in
reflected waves. The defect can be detected in size and location within
the material.

Tron and steel production

Iron and steel are the most widely used materials and a knowledge of
their manufacture and properties is very useful.

Making iron is the first stage in the production of steel. Iron ores are
first prepared by crushing, screening and roasting with limestone and
coke. The ore is thus concentrated and prepared for the blast furnace. A
mixture of ore, coke and limestone is used to fill the blast furnace.
Within the furnace an intense heat is generated as a result of the coke
burning. Blasts of air entering the furnace towards the base assist in this

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 320 ---
Engineering materials 33)

burning process. The iron ore is reduced to iron and falls to the base of
the furnace, becoming molten as it falls. Various impurities, such as
carbon, silicon, manganese and sulphur, are absorbed by the iron as it
descends. A slag of various materials, combined with the limestone,
forms on top of the iron. The slag is tapped or drawn off from the
furnace as it collects. The molten iron may be tapped and run into
moulds to make bars of pig iron. Alternatively it may be transferred
while molten to a steel manufacturing process.

Various processes are used in the manufacture of steel, such as the
open hearth process, the oxygen or basic oxygen process and the electric
furnace process. The terms ‘acid’ or ‘basic’ are often used with
reference to steels. These terms refer to the production process and the
type of furnace lining, e.g. an alkaline or basic lining is used to make
basic steel. The choice of furnace lining is decided by the raw materials
used in the manufacture of the steel. In all the steel producing processes
the hot molten steel is exposed to air or oxygen which oxidises the
impurities to refine the pig iron into high-quality steel.

Steels produced in the above processes will all contain an excess of
oxygen which will affect the material quality. Several finishing
treatments are used in the final steel casting. Rimmed steel has little or
no oxygen removing treatment, and the central core of the solidified
ingot is therefore a mass of blow holes. Hot rolling of the ingot usually
welds up most of these holes. Killed steel is produced by adding
aluminium or silicon before the molten steel is poured. The oxygen
forms oxides with this material and a superior quality steel compared
with rimmed steel is produced. Vacuum degassed steels result from
reducing the atmospheric pressure while the steel is molten. This
reduces the oxygen content and a final deoxidation can be achieved with
small additions of silicon or aluminium.

Cast iron is produced by remelting pig iron under controlled
conditions in a miniature type of blast furnace known as a ‘cupola’.
Variations of alloying additions may also be made. Two main types of
cast iron occur—‘white’ and ‘grey’. The colour relates to the appearance
of the fractured surface. White cast iron is hard and brittle; grey is
softer, readily machinable and less brittle.

Heat treatment

Heat treatment consists of heating a metal alloy to a temperature below
its melting point and then cooling it in a particular manner. The result is
some desired change in the material properties. Since most heat
treatment is applied to steel, the various terms and types of treatment
will be described with reference to steel.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 321 ---
332 Engineering materials

Normalising. The steel is heated to a temperature of 850—950°C,
depending upon its carbon content, and is then allowed to cool in air. A
hard strong steel with a refined grain structure is produced.
Annealing. Again the steel is heated to around 850—950°C, but it is cooled
slowly, either in the furnace or an insulated space. A softer, more
ductile, steel than that in the normalised condition, is produced.
Hardening. The steel is heated to 850~950°C and is then rapidly cooled
by quenching in oil or water. The hardest possible condition for the
particular steel is thus produced and the tensile strength is increased.
Tempering. This process follows the quenching of steel and. involves
reheating to some temperature up to about 680°C. The higher the
tempering temperature the lower the tensile properties of the material.
Once tempered the metal is rapidly cooled by quenching.

Controlled rolling. This is sometimes described as a thermomechanical
treatment. In two-stage controlled rolling an initial rough rolling is first
carried out at 950-1100°C. The first controlled rolling stage is carried
out at 850-920°C. The second stage is completed at about
700—730°C. The process is designed to achieve fine grain size, improve
mechanical properties and toughness, and enhance weldability.

Material forming

In the production of engineering equipment various different processes
are used to produce the assortment of component parts. These forming
or shaping processes can be grouped as follows:

. Casting.

. Forging.

. Extruding.
. Sintering.
. Machining.

Ot 09 NO me

Casting is the use of molten metal poured into a mould of the desired
shape. A wooden pattern, slightly larger in dimensions than the desired
item, to allow for shrinkage, may be used to form a mould in sand. Entry
and exit holes, the gate and riser, are provided for the metal in the sand
mould. Alternatively a permanent metal mould or ‘die’ may be made in
two parts and used to make large quantities of the item. This method is
called ‘die casting’. The molten metal may be poured into the dies or
forced in under pressure.

Forging involves shaping the metal when it is hot but not molten. In
the manufacturing process of forging a pair of die blocks have the hot
metal forced into them. This is usually achieved by placing the metal on
the lower half die and forcing the top half down by a hydraulic press.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 322 ---
Engineering materials 333

Extrusion involves the shaping of metal, usually into a rod or tube cross
section, by forcing a block of material through appropriately shaped
dies. Most metals must be heated before extrusion in order to reduce the
extruding pressure required.

Sintering is the production of shaped parts from metal powder. A
suitable metal powder mixture is placed in a die, compressed and heated
to a temperature about two thirds of the material melting point. This
heating process results in the powder compacting into a metal in the
required shape.

Machining of one type or another is usually carried out on all metal
items. This may involve planing flat surfaces, drilling holes, grinding
rough edges, etc. Various equipment, such as milling machines, drilling
machines, grinders, lathes, etc., will be used. Many of these machines are
automatic or semi-automatic in operation and can perform a number of
different operations in sequence.

Common metals and alloys

Some of the more common metals met in engineering will now be briefly
described. Most metals are alloyed in order to combine the better
qualities of the constituents and sometimes to obtain properties that
none of them alone possesses. The various properties, composition and
uses of some common engineering materials are given in Table 16.1.

Steel

Steel is an alloy of carbon and iron. Various other metals are alloyed to
steel in order to improve the properties, reduce the heat treatment
necessary and provide uniformity in large masses of the material.
Manganese is added in amounts up to about 1.8% in order to improve
mechanical properties. Silicon is added in amounts varying from 0.5% to
3.5% in order to increase strength and hardness. Nickel, when added as
3 to 3.75% of the content, produces a finer grained material with
increased strength and erosion resistance. Chromium, when added,
tends to increase grain size and cause hardness but improves resistance
to erosion and corrosion. Nickel and chromium added to steel as 8% and
18% respectively produce stainless steel. Molybdenum is added in small
amounts to improve strength, particularly at high temperatures.
Vanadium is added in small amounts to increase strength and resistance
to fatigue. Tungsten added at between 12 and 18%, together with up to
5% chromium, produces high speed steel.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 323 ---
Table 16.1 Material properties and uses
eee

Material Composition 0.2% proof Ultimate % Elongation Modulus of Brinell Fatigue — Uses
stress tensile elasticity hardness limit
(MN/m?) stress (MN/m?) number (MN/m!?)
(MN/m?)
Admiralty 70 Cu, 29 Zn, 1 Sn 170 408 35 103 100 127 Tube plates
brass and tubes for
condensers
Aluminium — Almost pure 20 55 55 73 15 31 Base metal for
light alloys
Aluminium 76 Cu, 22 Zn, 2 Al 139 378 55 110 75 96 Tube plates
brass and tubes for

condensers and
heat exchangers

Brass 70 Cu, 30 Zn 15 324 67 15 65 106 Bearing liners
Cast iron 3.25 C, 2.25 Si, 0.65 Mn, 180 310 5 120 200 110 Cylinder heads
(grey) Remainder Fe : and liners
Copper Almost pure 48 216 48 117 42 117 Base metal for
numerous
alloys
Cupro-nickel 70 Cu, 30 Ni 170 417 42 152 90 147 Heat exchanger
tubes
Gunmetal 88 Cu, 10 Sn, 2 Zn 139 286 18 97 85 100 Valves and
bearing bushes
Monel metal 68 Ni, 29 Cu, 380 610 28 18) 160 170 Valves and
Remainder Fe and Mn pump impellers
Phosphor 91.5 Cu, 8 Sn, 0.5 P 376 424 65 Vit 190 112 Bearings and
bronze springs
Stainless 18 Cr, 8 Ni, 0.12C 170 460 40 195 180 260 Valves and
steel Remainder Fe turbine blading
Steel 0.23 C, I Mn, 0.5 Si, 235 470 22 207 130 230 Bedplates,
Remainder Fe columns of
engines and

other structural
items

Pes

sjeuaieu Suysauisuq

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 324 ---
Engineering materials 335

Aluminium

Aluminium is a light material which has a good resistance to atmospheric
corrosion. It is usually used as an alloy with small percentages of copper,
magnesium, iron, manganese, zinc, chromium and titanium. It is also
used as a minor alloying element with other metals. Suitable heat
treatment can significantly improve the properties of the alloy.

Copper

Copper has good electrical conductivity and is much used in electrical
equipment. It has a high resistance to corrosion and also forms a
number of important alloys, such as the brasses and bronzes.

Zinc

Zinc has a good resistance to atmospheric corrosion and is used as a
coating for protecting steel: the process is called ‘galvanising’. It is also
used as a sacrificial anode material because of its position in the galvanic
series. See the subsection on corrosion later in this Chapter. A number
of alloys are formed using zinc.

Tin
A ductile, malleable metal that is resistant to corrosion by air or water. It
is used as a coating for steel and also in various alloys.

Titanium
A light, strong, corrosion-resistant metal which is used as the plate

material in plate-type heat exchangers. It is also used as an alloying
element in various special steels.

Brass

An alloy of copper and zinc with usually a major proportion of copper.
A small amount of arsenic may be added to prevent a form of corrosion
known as ‘dezincification’ occurring. Other alloying metals, such as
aluminium, tin and manganese, may be added to improve the
properties.

Bronze

An alloy of copper and tin with superior corrosion and wear resistance
to brass. Other alloying additions, such as manganese, form manganese

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 325 ---
336 Engineering materials

bronze or propeller brass. Additions of aluminium and zinc result in
aluminium bronze and gunmetal respectively.

Cupro-nickel

An alloy of copper and nickel with 20 or 30% of nickel. Good strength
properties combined with a resistance to corrosion by sea or river waters
make this a popular alloy. Monel metal is a particular cupro-nickel alloy
with small additions of iron, manganese, silicon and carbon.

White metal

Usually a tin based alloy with amounts of lead, copper and antimony. It
may also be a lead based alloy with antimony. White metal has a low
coefficient of friction and is used as a lining material for bearings.

Non-metallic materials

Many non-metallic materials are in general use. Their improved
properties have resulted in their replacing conventional metals for many
applications. The majority are organic, being produced either synthetic-
ally or from naturally occurring material.

Ceramics are being increasingly considered for marine use particular-
ly where galvanic corrosion is a problem. Sintered alpha silicon carbide
and other silicon-based ceramics have good strength properties and are
inert in sea water.

The general term ‘plastic’ is used to describe many of these
non-metallic materials. Plastics are organic materials which can be
moulded to shape under the action of heat or heat and pressure. There
are two main classes, thermoplastic and thermosetting, although some
more modern plastics are strictly neither. Thermoplastic materials are
softened by heat and can be formed to shape and then set by cooling,
e.g. perspex, polyvinylchloride (PVC) and nylon. Thermosetting
materials are usually moulded in a heated state, undergo a chemical
change on further heating and then set hard, for example Bakelite,
epoxy resins and polyesters.

Some general properties of plastic materials are good corrosion
resistance, good electrical resistance and good thermal resistance; but
they are unsuitable for high temperatures. To improve or alter
properties, various additives or fillers are used, such as glass fibre for
strength. Asbestos fibre can improve heat resistance and mica is
sometimes added to reduce electrical conductivity.

Foamed plastics are formed by the liberation of gas from the actual
material, which then expands to form a honeycomb-like structure. Such

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 326 ---
Engineering materials 337

materials have very good sound and heat insulating properties. Many
plastics can be foamed to give low density materials with a variety of
properties, for example, fire extinguishing. Some well known non-
metallic materials are:

Asbestos

A mineral which will withstand very high temperatures and is
unaffected by steam, petrol, paraffin, fuel oils and lubricants. It is used
in many forms of jointing or gasket material and in various types of
gland packing. It does however present a health hazard in some forms.

Cotton

A fibrous material of natural origin which is used as a backing material
for rubber in rubber insertion jointing. It is also used in some types of
gland packing material.

Glass reinforced plastics (GRP)

A combination of thin fibres of glass in various forms which, when
mixed with a resin, will cure (set) to produce a hard material which is
strong and chemically inert. It has a variety of uses for general repairs.

Lignum vitae

A hardwood which is used for stern bearing lining. It can be lubricated
by sea water but is subject to some swelling.

Nylon

A synthetic polymer which is chemically inert and resistant to erosion
and impingement attack. It is used for orifice plates, valve seats and as a
coating for salt water pipes.

Polytetrafluorethylene (PTFE)

A fluoropolymer which is chemically inert and resistant to heat. It has a
low coefficient of friction and is widely used as a bearing material. It can
be used dry and is employed in sealed bearings. Impregnated with
graphite, it is used as a filling material for glands and guide rings.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 327 ---
338 Engineering materials

Polyvinylchloride (PVC)

A vinyl plastic which is chemically inert and used in rigid form for
pipework, ducts, etc. In a plasticised form it is used for sheeting, cable
covering and various mouldings.

Resin

Resins are hard, brittle substances which are insoluble in water. Strictly
speaking they are added to polymers prior to curing. The term ‘resin’ is
often incorrectly used to mean any synthetic plastic. Epoxy resins are
liquids which can be poured and cured at room temperatures. The
cured material is unaffected by oils and sea water. It is tough, solid and
durable and is used as a chocking material for engines, winches, etc.

Rubber

A tree sap which solidifies to form a rough, elastic material which is
unaffected by water but is attacked by oils and steam. It is used as a
jointing material for fresh and sea water pipes and also for water
lubricated: bearings. When combined with sulphur (vulcanized) it forms
a hard material called. ‘ebonite’ which is used for bucket rings (piston
rings) in feed pumps. Synthetic rubbers such as neoprene and nitrile
rubber are used where resistance to oil, mild chemicals or higher
temperatures is required.

Joining metals

Many larger items of engineering equipment are the result of combining
or joining together smaller, easily produced items. Various joining
methods exist, ranging from mechanical devices, such as rivets or nuts
and bolts, to fusion welding of the two parts.

It is not proposed to discuss riveting, which no longer has any large
scale marine engineering applications, nor will nuts and bolts be
mentioned, since these are well known in their various forms.

Brazing and soldering are a means of joining metal items using an
alloy (solder) of lower melting point than the metals to be joined. The
liquefied solder is applied to the heated joint and forms a very thin layer
of metal which is alloyed to both surfaces. On cooling the two metals are
joined by the alloy layer between them.

Welding is the fusion of the two metals to be joined to produce a joint
which is as strong as the metal itself. It is usual to join similar metals by

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 328 ---
Engineering materials 339

welding. To achieve the high temperature at which fusion can take
place, the metal may be. heated by a gas torch or an electric arc.

With gas welding, a torch burning oxygen and acetylene gas is used
and rods of the parent plate material are melted to provide the metal for
the joint.

An electric arc is produced between two metals in an electric circuit
when they are separated by a short distance. The metal to be welded
forms one electrode in the circuit and the welding rod the other. The
electric-arc produced creates a region of high temperature which melts
and enables fusion of the metals to take place. A transformer is used to
provide a low voltage and the current can be regulated depending upon
the metal thickness. The electrode provides the filler material for the
joint and is flux coated to exclude atmospheric gases from the fusion
process.

Corrosion

Corrosion is the wasting of metals by chemical or electrochemical
reactions with their surroundings. A knowledge of the various processes
or situations in which corrosion occurs will enable at least a slowing down
of the material wastage.

Iron and steel corrode in an attempt to return to their stable oxide
form. This oxidising, or ‘rusting’ as it is called, will take place wherever
steel is exposed to oxygen and moisture. Unfortunately the metal oxide
formed permits the reaction to continue beneath it. Some metals
however produce a passive oxide film, that is, no further corrosion takes
place beneath it. Aluminium and chromium are examples of metals
which form passive oxide coatings. Corrosion control of this process
usually involves a coating. This may be another metal, such as tin or zinc,
or the use of paints or plastic coatings.

Electrochemical corrosion usually involves two different metals with
an electrolyte between them. (An electrolyte is a liquid which enables
current to flow through it.) A corrosion cell or galvanic cell is said to
have been set up. Current flow occurs in the cell between the two metals
since they are at different potentials. As a result of the current flow
through the electrolyte, metal is removed from the anode or positive
electrode and the cathode or negative electrode is protected from
corrosion. A corrosion cell can occur between different parts of the same
metal, perhaps due to slight variations in composition, oxygen
concentration, and so on. The result is usually small holes or pits and the
effect is known as ‘pitting corrosion’. A more serious form of this effect
results in greater damage and is known as ‘crevice corrosion’. The
prevention of electrochemical corrosion is achieved by cathodic

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 329 ---
340 Engineering materials

protection. Pitting and crevice corrosion can be countered by a suitable
choice of materials, certain copper alloys for instance.

‘Erosion’ is a term often associated with corrosion and is the wearing
away of metal by abrasion. Sea water systems are prone to problems of
this nature. Increasing water velocity can reduce pitting problems in
some materials but will increase their general surface corrosion, for
example copper base alloys. Water impinging on a surface can cause
erosion damage and this is usually found where turbulent flow
conditions occur. The water inlet tube plates of heat exchangers often
suffer from this problem. Careful material selection is necessary to
reduce this type of erosion.

Cathodic protection

Cathodic protection operates by providing a reverse current flow to that
of the corrosive system. This can be achieved in one of two ways, either
by the use of sacrificial anodes or an impressed current. The sacrificial
anode method uses metals such as aluminium or zinc which form the
anode of the corrosion cell in preference to other metals such as steel.
The impressed current system provides an electrical potential difference
from the ship’s power supply system through a long lasting anode of a
corrosion resistant material such as platinised titanium.

The sacrificial anode method is employed in heat exchanger water
boxes where a block or plate of zinc or aluminium is fastened to the cast
iron or steel. A good connection is necessary to ensure the flow of
electricity. If the anode does not corrode away then it is not properly
connected. The anode should not be painted or coated in any way.

The impressed current method is not normally used for the
protection of machinery or auxiliary equipment handling sea water
because of the problems of current and voltage control. It is however
often used for protection of the external hull.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 330 ---
Chapter 17 _______—
Watchkeeping and equipment
operation

The ‘round the clock’ operation of a ship at sea requires a rota system of
attendance in the machinery space. This has developed into a system of
watchkeeping that has endured until recently. The arrival of ‘Un-
attended Machinery Spaces’ (UMS) has begun to erode this traditional
practice of watchkeeping. The organisation of the Engineering
Department, conventional watchkeeping and UMS practices will now be
outlined.

The Engineering Department

The Chief Engineer is directly responsible to the Master for the
satisfactory operation of all machinery and equipment. Apart from
assuming all responsibility his role is mainly that of consultant and
adviser. It is not usual for the Chief Engineer to keep a watch.

The Second Engineer is responsible for the practical upkeep of
machinery and the manning of the engine room: he is in effect an
executive officer. On some ships the Second Engineer may keep a watch.

The Third and Fourth Engineers are usually senior watchkeepers or
engineers in charge of a watch. Each may have particular areas of
responsibility, such as generators or boilers.

Fifth and Sixth Engineers may be referred to as such, or all below
Fourth Engineer may be classed as Junior Engineers. They will make up
as additional watchkeepers, day workers on maintenance work or
possibly act as Refrigeration Engineer.

Electrical Engineers may be carried on large ships or where company
practice dictates. Where no specialist Electrical Engineer is carried the
duty will fall on one of the engineers.

Various engine room ratings will usually form part of the engine room
complement. Donkeymen are usually senior ratings who attend the

341

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 331 ---
342 Watchkeeping and equipment operation

auxiliary boiler while the ship is in port. Otherwise they will direct the
ratings in the maintenance and upkeep of the machinery space. A
storekeeper may also be carried and on. tankers a pump man is
employed to maintain and operate the cargo pumps. The engine room
ratings, e.g. firemen, greasers, etc., are usually employed on watches to
assist the engineer in charge.

The watchkeeping system

The system of watches adopted on board ship is usually a four hour
period of working with eight hours rest for the members of each watch.
The three watches in any 12 hour period are usually 12—4, 4-8 and
8-12. The word ‘watch’ is taken as meaning the time period and also the
personnel at work during that period.

The watchkeeping arrangements and the make up of the watch will be
decided by the Chief Engineer. Factors to be taken into account in this
matter will include the type of ship, the type of machinery and degree of
automation, the qualifications and experience of the members of the
watch, any special conditions such as weather, ship location, internation-
al and local regulations, etc. The engineer officer in charge of the watch
is the Chief Engineer’s representative and is responsible for the safe and
efficient operation and upkeep of all machinery affecting the safety of
the ship.

Operating the watch

An engineer officer in charge, with perhaps a junior engineer assisting
and one or more ratings, will form the watch. Each member of the watch
should be familiar with his duties and the safety and survival equipment
in the machinery space. This would include a knowledge of the fire
fighting equipment with respect to location and operation, being able to
distinguish the different alarms and the action required, an understand-
ing of the communications systems and how to summon help and also
being aware of the escape routes from the machinery space.

At the beginning of the watch the current operational parameters and
the condition of all machinery should be verified and also the log
readings should correspond with those observed. The engineer officer
in charge should note if there are any special orders or instructions
relating to the operation of the main machinery or auxiliaries. He
should determine what work is in progress and any hazards or
limitations this presents. The levels of tanks containing fuel, water, slops,
ballast, etc., should be noted and also the level of the various bilges. The
operating mode of equipment and available standby equipment should
also be noted.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 332 ---
Watchkeeping and equipment operation 343

At appropriate intervals inspections should be made of the main
propulsion plant, auxiliary machinery and steering gear spaces. Any
routine adjustments may then be made and malfunctions or breakdowns
can be noted, reported and corrected. During these tours of inspection
bilge levels should be noted, piping and systems observed for leaks, and
local indicating instruments can be observed.

Where bilge levels are high, or the well is full, it must be pumped dry.
The liquid will be pumped to an oily water separator, and only clean
water is to be discharged overboard. Particular attention must be paid to
the relevant oil pollution regulations both of a national and international
nature, depending upon the location of the ship. Bilges should not be
pumped when in port. Oily bilges are usually emptied to a slop tank
from which the oil may be reclaimed or discharged into suitable facilities
when in port. The discharging of oil from a ship usually results in the
engineer responsible and the master being arrested.

Bridge orders must be promptly carried out and a record of any
required changes in speed and direction should be kept. When under
standby or manceuvring conditions with the machinery being manually
operated the control unit or console should be continuously manned.

Certain watchkeeping duties will be necessary for the continuous
operation of equipment or plant—the transferring of fuel for instance.
In addition to these regular tasks other repair or maintenance tasks may
be required of the watchkeeping personnel. However no tasks should be
set or undertaken which will interfere with the supervisory duties
relating to the main machinery and associated equipment.

During the watch a log or record will be taken of the various
parameters of main and auxiliary equipment. This may be a manual
operation or provided automatically on modern vessels by a data logger.
A typical log book page for a slow-speed diesel driven vessel is shown in
Figure 17.1.

The hours and minutes columns are necessary since a ship, passing
through time zones, may have watches of more or less than four hours.
Fuel consumption figures are used to determine the efficiency of
operation, in addition to providing a check on the available bunker
quantities. Lubricating oil tank levels and consumption to some extent
indicate engine oil consumption. The sump level is recorded and
checked that it does not rise or fall, but a gradual fall is acceptable as the
engine uses some oil during operation. If the sump level were to rise this
would indicate water leakage into the oil and an investigation into the
cause must be made. The engine exhaust temperatures should all read
about the same to indicate an equal power production from each
cylinder. The various temperature and pressure values for the cooling
water and lubricating oil should be at, or near to, the manufacturer's
designed values for the particular speed or fuel lever settings. Any high

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 333 ---
Voyage No. From To
MAIN ENGINE
ey ror [gp ono |i TEMPERATURES IN
5 i Ee ie Tike Casing Wier
: abeletets (eit diye pe

MISCELLANEOUS

GENERATOR ENGINES
Terparniere °C

Prewure Kalen

So] fae

Lo roa oof Lt

Ann,

PEER LEE

Figure 17.1 Typical log book page

esi fel[=folo(-fors|-fo s[—pols,— | os

bes

uonviado yuawdinba pue Buidaayyney,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 334 ---
Watchkeeping and equipment operation 345

outlet temperature for cooling water would indicate a lack of supply to
that point.

Various parameters for the main engine turbo-blowers are also
logged. Since they are high-speed turbines the correct supply of
lubricating oil is essential. The machine itself is water cooled since it is
circulated by hot exhaust gases. The air cooler is used to increase the
charge air density to enable a large quantity of air to enter the engine
cylinder. If cooling were inadequate a lesser mass of air would be
supplied to the engine, resulting in a reduced power output, inefficient
combustion and black smoke.

Various miscellaneous level and temperature readings are taken of
heavy oil tanks, both settling and service, sterntube bearing temperature,
sea water temperature, etc. The operating diesel generators will have
their exhaust temperatures, cooling water and lubricating oil tempera-
tures and pressures logged in much the same way as for the main
engine. Of particular importance will be the log of running hours since
this will be the basis for overhauling the machinery.

Other auxiliary machinery and equipment, such as heat exchangers,
fresh water generator (evaporator), boiler, air conditioning plant and
refrigeration plant will also have appropriate readings taken. There will
usually be summaries or daily account tables for heavy oil, diesel oil,
lubricating oil and fresh water, which will be compiled at noon. Provision
is also made for remarks or important events to be noted in the log for
each watch.

The completed log is used to compile a summary sheet or abstract of
information which is returned to the company head office for record
purposes.

The log for a medium-speed diesel driven ship would be fairly similar
with probably greater numbers of cylinder readings to be taken and
often more than one engine. There would also be gearbox parameters to
be logged.

For a steam turbine driven vessel the main log readings will be for the
boiler and the turbine. Boiler steam pressure, combustion air pressure,
fuel oil temperatures, etc., will all be recorded. For the turbine the main
bearing temperatures, steam pressures and temperatures, condenser
vacuum, etc., must be noted. All logged values should correspond fairly
closely with the design values for the equipment.

Where situations occur in the machinery space which may affect the
speed, manceuvrability, power supply or other essentials for the safe
operation of the ship, the bridge should be informed as soon as possible.
This notification should preferably be given before any changes are
made to enable the bridge to take appropriate action.

The engineer in charge should notify the Chief Engineer in the event
of any serious occurrence or a situation where he is unsure of the action

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 335 ---
346 Watchkeeping and equipment operation

to take. Examples might be, if any machinery suffers severe damage, or
a malfunction occurs which may lead to serious damage. However where
immediate action is necessary to ensure safety of the ship, its machinery
and crew, it must be taken by the engineer in charge.

At the completion of the watch each member should hand over to his
relief, ensuring that he is competent to take over and carry out his duties
effectively.

UMS operation

The machinery spaces will usually be manned at least eight hours per
day. During this time the engineers will be undertaking various
maintenance tasks, the duty engineer having particular responsibility for
the watchkeeping duties and dealing with any alarms which may occur.

When operating unmanned anyone entering the machinery space
must inform the deck officer on watch. When working, or making a tour
of inspection alone, the deck officer on watch should be telephoned at
agreed intervals of perhaps 15 or 30 minutes.

Where the machinery space is unattended, a duty engineer will be
responsible for supervision. He will normally be one of three senior
watchkeeping engineers and will work on a 24 hour on, 48 hours off
rota. During his rota period he will make tours of inspection about every
four hours beginning at 7 or 8 o'clock in the morning.

The tour of inspection will be similar to that for a conventional watch
with due consideration being given to the unattended mode of
machinery operation. Trends in parameter readings must be observed,
and any instability in operating conditions must be rectified, etc. A set
list or mini-log of readings may have to be taken during the various
tours. Between tours of inspection the Duty Engineer will be on call.and
should be ready to investigate any alarms relayed to his cabin or the
various public rooms. The Duty Engineer should not be out of range of
these alarms without appointing a relief and informing the bridge.

The main log book readings will be taken as required while on a tour
of inspection. The various regular duties, such as fuel transfer, pumping
of bilges, and so on, should be carried out during the daywork period,
but it remains the responsibility of the Duty Engineer to ensure that they
are done.

Bunkering
The loading of fuel oil into a ship’s tanks from a shoreside installation or

bunker barge takes place about once a trip. The penalties for oil spills
are large, the damage to the environment is considerable, and the ship

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 336 ---
Watchkeeping and equipment operation 347

may well be delayed or even arrested if this job is not properly carried

out.

Bunkering is traditionally the fourth engineer’s job. He will usually be
assisted by at least one other engineer and one or more ratings. Most
ships will have a set procedure which is to be followed or some form of
general instructions which might include:

L.

2.

3.

All scuppers are to be sealed off, i.e. plugged, to prevent any minor
oil spill on deck going overboard.

All tank air vent containments or drip trays are to be sealed or
plugged.

Sawdust should be available at the bunkering station and various
positions around the deck.

. All fuel tank valves should be carefully checked before bunkering

commences. The personnel involved should be quite familiar with
the piping systems, tank valves, spill tanks and all tank-sounding
equipment.

. All valves on tanks which are not to be used should be closed or

switched to the ‘off position and effectively safeguarded against
opening or operation.

. Any manual valves in the filling lines should be proved to be open

for the flow of liquid.

. Proven, reliable tank-sounding equipment must be used to regularly

check the contents of each tank. It may even be necessary to ‘dip’ or
manually sound tanks to be certain of their contents.

. A complete set of all tank soundings must be obtained before

bunkering commences.

. A suitable means of communication must be set up between the ship

and the bunkering installation before bunkering commences.

. On-board communication between involved personnel should be by

hand radio sets or some other satisfactory means.

. Any tank that is filling should be identified in some way on the level

indicator, possibly by a sign or marker reading ‘FILLING’.

. In the event of a spill, the Port Authorities should be informed as

soon as possible to enable appropriate cleaning measures to be
taken.

Periodic safety routines

In addition to watchkeeping and maintenance duties, various safety and
emergency equipment must be periodically checked. As an example, the
following inspections should take place at least weekly:

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 337 ---
348

10.
11.

12.

Watchkeeping and equipment operation

. Emergency generator should be started and run for a reasonable

period. Fuel oil, lubricating oil and cooling water supplies and tank
levels should be checked.

. Emergency fire pump should be run and the deck fire main

operated for a reasonable period. All operating parameters should
be checked.

. Carbon dioxide cylinder storage room should be visually examined.

The release box door should be opened to test the alarm and check
that the machinery-space fans stop.

. One smoke detector in each circuit should be tested to ensure

operation and correct indication on the alarm panel. Aerosol test
sprays are available to safely check some types of detector.

. Fire pushbutton alarms should be tested, by operating a different

one during each test.

. Any machinery space ventilators or skylights should be operated

and greased, if necessary, to ensure smooth, rapid closing should
this be necessary.

. Fire extinguishers should be observed in their correct location and

checked to ensure they are operable.

. Fire hoses and nozzles should likewise be observed in their correct

places. The nozzles should be tried on the hose coupling. Any
defective hose should be replaced.

. Any emergency batteries, e.g. for lighting or emergency generator

starting, should be examined, have the acid specific gravity checked,
and be topped up, as required.

All lifeboat engines should be run for a reasonable period. Fuel oil
and lubricating oil levels should be checked.

All valves and equipment operated from the fire control point
should be checked for operation, where this is possible.

Any watertight doors should be opened and closed by hand and
power. The guides should be checked to ensure that they are clear
and unobstructed.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 338 ---
Appendix

The appendix is reserved for all those topics which, although very useful,
do not quite fit in elsewhere. As an introduction, or a reminder, a section
on SI units (Systéme International d’Unités) is given together with some
conversions to the older system of Imperial units. Various engineering
calculations relating to power measurement and fuel consumption are
explained, together with worked examples. So that the production of
manufacturing drawings of a fairly simple nature can be accomplished,
an introduction to engineering drawing is provided.

SI units

The metric system of units, which is intended to provide international
unification of physical measurements and quantities, is referred to as SI
units.

There are three classes of units: base, supplementary and derived.
There are seven base units: length—metre (m); mass—kilogram (kg);
time—sound (s); electric current—ampere (A); temperature—kelvin
(K); luminous intensity—candela (cd); and amount of substance—mole
(mol). There are two supplementary units: plane angle—radian (rad);
solid angle—steradian (sr). All remaining units used are derived from
the base units. The derived units are coherent in that the multiplication
or division of base units produces the derived unit. Examples of derived
units are given in Table A.1.

Table A.1 Derived units

Quantity Unit

Force Newton (N) = kg.m/s?
Pressure Pascal (Pa) = N/m?
Energy, work Joule (J) =N.m
Power Watt (W) = jis
Frequency Hertz (Hz) = Us

349

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 339 ---
350 Appendix

There are in use certain units which are non-SI but are retained
because of their practical importance. Examples are: time—days, hours,
minutes and speed—knots.

To express large quantities or values a system of prefixes is used. The
use of a prefix implies a quantity multiplied by some index of 10. Some
of the more common prefixes are:

1.000.000 000 =10° =giga =G
1000000 =10° =mega =M
1000 =10° =kilo =k

100 = 10? =hectoo =h
10 =10' = deca =da

0.1 = 107! = deci =d

0.01 =107% =centi =c

0.001 =10° = milli =m

0.000 001 =10° =microo =p

0.000 000001 = 10°? = nano =n

Example:

10000 metres = 10 kilometres = 10km
0.001 metres = 1 millimetre = 1mm

Note: Since kilogram is a base unit care must be taken in the use and
meaning of prefixes and since only one prefix can be used then, for
example, 0.000 001 kg = 1 milligram

A conversion table for some well known units is provided in Table
A.2.

Table A.2 Conversion factors

To convert from to multiply
inch (in) metre (m) 0.0254
foot (ft) metre (m) 0.3048
mile kilometre (km) 1.609
nautical mile kilometre (km) 1.852

Volume
cubic foot (ft*) cubic metre (m*) 0.02832
gallon (gal) litre (1) 4.546

Mass
pound (Ib) kilogram (kg) 0.4536,
tonne kilogram (kg) 1016

Force
pound-force (Ibf) newton (N) 4,448

ton-force kilonewton (kN) 9.964


---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 340 ---
Appendix 351

To convert from to multiply
Pressure
pound-force per square inch (Ibf/in?) kilonewton per square 6.895
metre (kN/m?)
atmosphere (atm) kilonewton per square 101.3
metre (kN/m?)

kilogram force per square centimetre (kgf/cm?) _kilonewton per square 98.1
metre (kN/m?)

Energy
foot pound-force joule (J) 1.356
British Thermal Unit (BTU) kilojoule (kJ) 1.055
Power
horsepower (hp) kilowatt (kW) 0.7457
metric horsepower kilowatt (kW) 0.7355

Engineering terms

The system of measurement has been outlined with an introduction to
SI units. Some of the common terms used in engineering measurement
will now be described.

Mass

Mass is the quantity of matter in a body and is proportional to the
product of volume and density. The unit is the kilogram and the
abbreviation used is ‘kg’. Large quantities are often expressed in tonnes
(t) where 1 tonne = 10° kg.

Force

Acceleration or retardation of a mass results from an applied force.
When unit mass is given unit acceleration then a unit of force has been
applied. The unit of force is the newton (N).

force = mass X acceleration
N kg m/s?
Masses are attracted to the earth by a gravitational force which is the
product of their mass and acceleration due to gravity (g). The value of ‘g’

is 9.81 m/s”. The product of mass and ‘g’ is known as the weight of a body
and for a mass ‘w’kg would be w x g=9.81 w newtons.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 341 ---
352 Appendix

Work

When a force applied to a body causes it to move then work has been
done. When unit mass is moved unit distance then a unit of work has
been done. The unit of work is the joule (J).

work = (mass X g) x distance
J N m

Power

This is the quantity of work done in a given time or the rate of doing
work. When unit work is done in unit time then a unit of power has been
used. The unit of power is the watt (W).

power = mass X g X distance

time

Energy

This is the stored ability to do work and is measured in units of work
done, i.e. joules.

Pressure

The intensity of force or force per unit area is known as pressure. A unit
of pressure exists where unit force acts on unit area. The unit of
pressure is the newton per square metre and has the special name pascal
(Pa).

force _N

area m?

pressure (Pa) =

Another term often used by engineers is the bar where 1 bar is equal
to 10° Pa.

The datum or zero for pressure measurements must be carefully
considered. The complete, absence of pressure is a vacuum and this is
therefore the absolute zero of pressure measurements. However, acting
upon the earth’s surface at all times is what is known as ‘atmospheric
pressure’. The pressure gauge, which is the usual means of pressure
measurement, also accepts this atmospheric pressure and considers it
the zero of pressure measurements. Thus:

absolute pressure = gauge pressure + atmospheric pressure

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 342 ---
Appendix 353

Readings of pressure are considered to be absolute unless followed by
the word ‘gauge’ indicating a pressure gauge value. The actual value of
atmospheric pressure is usually read from a barometer in millimetres of
mercury:

atmospheric pressure = mm of mercury X 13.6 X 9.81 Pa

A standard value of 1 atmosphere is often used where the actual value
is unknown,

1 atmosphere = 101300 Pa
= 1.013 bar

Volume

The amount of physical space occupied by a body is called volume. The
unit of volume is the cubic metre (m*). Other units are also in use, such as
litre (1) and cubic centimetre (cm’), i.e.

1m? = 10001 = 10000000 cm*

Temperature

The degree of hotness or coldness of a body related to some zero value is
known as temperature. The Celsius scale measure in °C simply relates to
the freezing and boiling points of water dividing the distance shown on a
thermometer into 100 equal divisions. An absolute scale has been
devised based on a point 273.16 kelvin (0.01°C) which is the triple point
of water. At the triple point the three phases of water can exist, i.e. ice,
water and water vapour. The unit of the absolute scale is the kelvin. The
unit values in the kelvin and Celsius scales are equal and the
measurements of temperature are related, as follows:

x°C = (x°C + 273)K
or y K = (yK — 273)°C
Heat

Heat is energy in motion between a system and its surroundings as a
consequence of a temperature difference between them. The unit, as
with other forms of energy, is the joule (J).

Power measurement

The burning of fuel in an engine cylinder will result in the production of
power at the output shaft. Some of the power produced in the cylinder

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 343 ---
354 Appendix

will be used to drive the rotating masses of the engine. The power
produced in the cylinder can be measured by an engine indicator
mechanism as described in Chapter 2. This power is often referred to as
‘indicated power’. The power output of the engine is known as ‘shaft’ or
‘brake power’. On smaller engines it could be measured by applying a
type of brake to the shaft, hence the name.

Indicated power

Typical indicator diagrams for a two-stroke and four-stroke engine are
shown in Figure A.1. The area within the diagram represents the work

2

5 Firi

Fd wing Firing

a

5

ae]

£ .

& Expansion Compression
Exhaust and “
scavenging Expansion

Compression Exhaust

Atmospheric —_— Atmospheric
line Cylinder Induction jing
| volume
{a) Two stroke engine (b) Four stroke engine

Figure A.1 Indicator diagrams

done within the measured cylinder in one cycle. The area can be
measured by an instrument known as a ‘planimeter’ or by the use of the
mid-ordinate rule. The area is then divided by the length of the diagram
in order to obtain a mean height. This mean height, when multiplied by
the spring scale of the indicator mechanism, gives the indicated mean
effective pressure for the cylinder. The mean effective or ‘average’
pressure can now be used to determine the work done in the cylinder.

Work done in = mean effective x area of piston X length of
1 cycle pressure (A) piston stroke
(Pm) (L)

To obtain a measure of power it is necessary to determine the rate of
doing work, i.e. multiply by the number of power strokes in one second.
For a four-stroke-cycle engine this will be rev/sec+2 and for a
two-stroke-cycle engine simply rev/sec.

power developed in one cylinder

_ Mean effective | area of length of piston | no. of power
pressure (Pm) piston (A) stroke (L) strokes/sec (N)

=PmLAN

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 344 ---
Appendix 355

For a multi-cylinder engine it would be necessary to multiply by the
number of cylinders.

Example

An indicator diagram taken from a six cylinder, two-stroke engine is
shown in Figure A.2. The spring constant for the indicator mechanism is

Mid ordinate

Figure A.2 Indicator diagram

65kPa mm. The engine stroke and bore are 1100mm and 410mm
respectively and it operates at 120 rev/min. What is the indicated power
of the engine?

The diagram is divided into 10 equal parts and within each a
mid-ordinate is positioned.

.. mean height of diagram = sum of mid-ordinates

number of parts in diagram

— 344454748494 11414426442

10
_ 129
10
= 12.9mm
mean effective pressure, Pm = mean height of x spring
diagram constant

12.9 x 65
838.5 kPa

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 345 ---
356 Appendix

indicated mean area length numberof number

power of = effective X of Xx of xX power xX of

engine pressure piston stroke strokes/sec cylinders
(Pm) (A) (L) (N)

= Pm LAN X number of cylinders

2
1100 410° x 7 | 120 6
10° 4x 10° 60

1461.28kW

838.5 x

Shaft power

A torsionmeter is usually used to measure the torque on the engine shaft
(see Chapter 15). This torque, together with the rotational speed, will
give the shaft power of the engine.

shaft power = torque in shaft
X rotational speed of shaft in radians per second

Example

The torque on an engine shaft is found to be 320 kNm when it is rotating
at 110 rev/min. Determine the shaft power of the engine.

shaft power = shaft torque
x Qn
X revolutions per second

= 320 x On xil0
60

= 3686.14kW

Mechanical efficiency

The power lost as a result of friction between the moving parts of the
engine results in the difference between shaft and indicated power. The
ratio of shaft power to indicated power for an engine is known as the
‘mechanical efficiency’.

: . shaft power
mechanical efficiency =
indicated power
Power utilisation

The engine shaft power is transmitted to the propeller with only minor
transmission losses. The operation of the propeller results in a forward

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 346 ---
Appendix 357

thrust on the thrust block and the propulsion of the ship at some
particular speed. The propeller efficiency is a measure of effectiveness
of the power conversion by the propeller.

propeller efficiency = thrust force x ship speed

shaft power

The power conversion achieved by the propeller is a result of its
rotating action and the geometry of the blades. The principal
geometrical feature is the pitch. This is the distance that a blade would
move forward in one revolution if it did not slip with respect to the
water. The pitch will vary at various points along the blade out to its tip
but an average value is used in calculations. The slip of the propeller is
measured as a ratio or percentage as follows:

theoretical speed or distance moved

propeller slip = ~ actual speed or distance moved

theoretical speed or distance moved

The theoretical speed is a product of pitch and the number of
revolutions turned in a unit time. The actual speed is the ship speed. It is
possible to have a negative value of slip if, for example, a strong current
or wind were assisting the ship’s forward motion.

Example

A ship on a voyage between two ports travels 2400 nautical miles in eight
days. On the voyage the engine has made 820000 revolutions. The
propeller pitch is 6m. Calculate the percentage propeller slip.

theoretical distance = 820000 x 6 (1 nautical mile = 1852 metres)

1852
= 2656.59 n.miles

theoretical distance — actual distance x 100

percentage slip = - .
theoretical distance

_ 2656.59 — 2400 x 100
2656.59

= 9.66%
Power estimation

The power developed by a ship’s machinery is used to overcome the
ship’s resistance and propel it at some speed. The power required to

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 347 ---
358 Appendix

propel a ship of a known displacement at some speed can be
approximately determined using the Admiralty coefficient method.
The total resistance of a ship, R, can be expressed as follows:

Total resistance R, = pS V"

where p is density (kg/m?)
S is wetted surface area (m”)
V is speed (knots)

now Wetted surface area « (Length)?
Displacement, 4 « (Length)°

thus Wetted surface area « (Displacement, A)?”

Most merchant ships will be slow or medium speed and the index ‘n’
may therefore be taken as 2. The density, p, is considered as a constant
term since all ships will be in sea water.

Total resistance, R, = 4?°V?

Propeller power «RXV

« A23y2 y

x Asy3
233
or Constant =

This constant is known as the ‘Admiralty coefficienv’.

Example

A ship of 15000 tonnes displacement has a speed of 14 knots. If the

Admiralty Coefficient is 410, calculate the power developed by the
machinery.

2/3473

Admiralty coefficient = ay

W373
Power developed, P_ = arv

— (15 000)? (14)?
410
= 4070kW

Fuel estimation

The fuel consumption of an engine depends upon the power developed.
The power estimation method described previously can therefore be

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 348 ---
Appendix 359

modified to provide fuel consumption values. The rate of fuel
consumption is the amount of fuel used in a unit time, e.g. tonne/day.
The specific fuel consumption is the amount of fuel used in unit time to
produce unit power, e.g. kg/kW hr.

since fuel consumption oc power

h Az3V3
where power = Admiralty coefficient
. Aays
then fuel consumption/day = Tucl coefficient
Az/sV3

or fuel coefficient == ———————_——_———_
fuel consumption/day
Where the fuel coefficient is considered constant a number of rela-
tionships can be built up to deal with changes in ship speed, displace-
ment, etc.

. . ABB V3 Aes V3
ie. fuel coefficient = § ——)—-L_— = —_L__2_
fuel cons., fuel cons.,

Where | and 2 relate to different conditions.

fuel cons., _ 4,\) /V,\8
fuel cons., 7 A, * V,

Considering the situation on a particular voyage or over some known
distance.

fuel cons./day x number of days = voyage or distance consumption

voyage distance :
or fuel cons./day x voyage cistance  _ voyage or distance
speed x 24 consumption

Where conditions vary on different voyages or over particular dis-
tances, then:

voyage cons., fuel cons., voyage distance, _ speed,
voyage cons., ~ fuel cons., voyage distance, speed,

and from an earlier expression

fuel cons., (2)" (2)
eee ft) =X ft

fuel cons., A, Vv,
voyage cons., _ /displacement,\*/?_ /speed, \?__/ speed,
voyage cons., _ displacement, x speed, * (= )

voyage distance,

voyage distance,

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 349 ---
360 Appendix

This provides the general expression

voyage cons., _ displacement, \?/* x speed, y x voyage distance,
voyage cons., displacement, speed, voyage distance,

Example

A vessel with a displacement of 12250 tonnes burns 290 tonnes of fuel
wher travelling at a speed of 15 knots on a voyage of 2850 nautical miles.
For a voyage of 1800 nautical miles at a speed of 13 knots and a
displacement of 14 200 tonnes estimate the quantity of fuel that will be
burnt.

voyage cons., ( —)" (= ) voyage distance,
= x

voyage cons., \displacement, speed, voyage distance,
voyage cons., _ (— y" (=) x 1800
290 12250/ *\15/ 2850

1.103 x 0.75 x 0.63 x 290
151.14 tonnes

voyage cons.,

Engineering drawing

Most engineering items defy description in words alone. To effectively
communicate details of engineering equipment a drawing is usually
used. Even the simplest of sketches must conform to certain rules or
standards to ensure a ‘language’ that can be readily understood.

Some of these basic rules will now be described with the intention of
enabling the production of a simple drawing for manufacturing or
explanation purposes. A drawing produced as a piece of information or
communication should stand alone, that is, no further explanation
should be necessary. All necessary dimensions should be provided on
the drawing and the materials to be used should be specified.

A drawing is made up of different types of lines, as shown in Figure
A.3. The continuous thick line is used for outlining the drawing. The
continuous thin line is used for dimension lines, to indicate sectioning,
etc. A series of short dashes represents a hidden detail or edge and a
chain dotted line is used for centre lines.

To represent a three dimensional item in two dimensions a means of
projecting the different views is necessary. Two systems of projection are
in use, First Angle and Third Angle. The First Angle system will be
described with reference to the object shown in Figure A.4. Three views
are drawn by looking at the object in the directions 1, 2 and 3. The views

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 350 ---
OO Thick continuous for outlines

Appearance

Threads

Figure A.3 Conventional representation

Thin continuous for dimension lines and projection lines
Short dashes for hidden details
Chain for centre fines

Convention

4

Z

GY, Vill Ll

CULL ZIth,

xtpuaddy

19¢

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 351 ---
362 Appendix

a
Figure A.4 Views for projection

seen are then drawn out, as shown in Figure A.5. View 1 is called the
‘front elevation’. View 2 is the ‘end elevation’ and is located to the right
of the front elevation. View 3 is the ‘plan’ and is positioned below the
front elevation.

Sections are used to show the internal details of a part or an assembly
as full lines. Section lines or hatching are used to indicate the different
items which have in effect been cut. Each different item will have section
lines at a different angle with 45° and 60° being most usual. Examples of

Front elevation End elevation

1dia

Plan
Figure A.5 First angle projection

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 352 ---
Appendix 363

a sectioning can be seen for the internal threads shown in Figure A.3.
The plane of section is always given and is shown on other views of the
item.

Dimension lines are essential for the manufacture of an item. The
dimension line is a thin continuous line with an arrowhead at each end
and the dimension is placed above it at right angles. Where possible
projection lines are used to allow the dimension line to be clear of the
drawing. The projection line begins a small distance clear of the drawing
outline. Leader lines are used to indicate information to the appropriate
part of the drawing and an arrowhead is used at the end of the line.

Scales are used to reduce drawings to reasonable sizes while retaining
the correct proportions. Standard scale reductions are 1:1; 1:2; 1:5; 1:10
etc., where for example 1:10 means one-tenth full size. The in-between
scale sizes are not normally used. Special scale rules are available to
simplify drawing in any one of the above scales.

Standard representations are used for common engineering items
such as nuts, bolts, studs, internal and external threads, etc. These are
shown in Figure A.3. The proportions used for drawing nuts and bolts
should be remembered and used whenever necessary.

A final word on the subject of information is necessary. A drawing
should enable the item to be manufactured or at least identified so that a
replacement can be obtained. Apart from the actual drawing there
should be a block of information giving the item name, any material to
be used, the drawing scale, stating the projection and possibly the date
and the name of the person who made the drawing.

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 353 ---
This page intentionally left blank

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 354 ---
Index

Absolute
pressure, 279, 352, 353
temperature, 353

Acid and basic processes, 331

Acidity, 152

Actuator, 310

Admiralty coefficient, 358

Aerobic bacteria, 147

Air compressors, 134-137
automatic valves, 137
water jacket safety valve, 135

Air conditioning, 163, 176-178
single duct, 176
single duct with reheat, 176, 178
twin duct, 176-178

Air ejector, 105, 106

Air register, 91, 92

Air release cock, 85

Air supply, 91

ALCAP, 157

Alkalinity, 94

Alternating current
distribution, 262, 263
generators, 259-262
motors, 267~270
paralleling of generators, 264
positioning motors, 301
supply, 264

Alternator
brushless high-speed, 262
shaft-driven, 262
statically excited, 261

Aluminium, 335

Ammeter, 258, 289

Ammonia, 165, 166

Amplifier, 300

Anchor capstan, 184

Annealing, 332

Asbestos, 337

Astern turbine, 57

Atmospheric drain tank, 101, 102

Atmospheric pressure, 279, 352,

353

Atomisation, 28

Attemperator, 74

Auto pilot, 322-324

Auto transformer starting, 268, 269

Automatic
feed water regulator, 85
self-tensioning winches, 182
voltage regulator, 261
water spray, 240, 241
Auxiliary steam
plant, 84
stop valve, 85
Axial thrust, 59, 60

Ballast system, 132
Barometer
aneroid, 281
mercury, 280
Batteries, 270-274
alkaline, 271, 272
charging, 272
lead-acid, 271
maintenance, 273, 274
operating characteristics, 272, 274
selection, 272
Bearings
slow-speed diesel, 29
steam turbine, 62, 63
Bedplate, 44, 47
Bellmouth, 129
Bellows pressure gauge, 282
Bend test, 330
Bilge
injection valve, 131
system, 131
Blades
impulse, 54
reaction, 54, 55
root fastening, 58, 59
Blow down valve, 85
Boiler
blowbacks, 252
combustion control, 314, 315
composite, 82, 85
D-type, 76
ESD-type, 77
mountings, 85-91
radiant, 78, 79
reheat, 79
water level control, 310~312
water treatment, 96

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 355 ---
366 Index

Bourdon tube, 281, 282
Bow thruster, 191, 193
Brass, 335
Brazing, 338
Breathing apparatus, 250, 251
Bridge control, 320-324
autopilot, 322, 324
controllable-pitch propeller, 322
slow-speed diesel, 321, 322
steam turbine, 320, 321
Brittleness, 326
Bronze, 335
Brushless high-speed alternator, 262
Bunkering, 346-347
Burners
pressure jet, 92, 93
roof fired, 92, 95
rotating cup, 92, 93
steam blast jet, 92, 93
Bus-bars, 255

Cable lifter, 184
Calorific value, 151
Calorifier, 132
Carbon dioxide
extinguisher, 237
flooding, 243, 244
Carbon forming tendency, 152

Cargo
refrigeration, 172-175
winch, 183
Cascade control, 316
Cast iron, 331

Casting, 332
Cathodic protection, 340
Caustic cracking, 94
Cavitation
propeller, 209
pump, 105
Central
cooling system, 32-33
priming system, 122
refrigerating plant, 172
Centralised control, 317, 318
Centrifuge, 154-158
Ceramics, 336
Cetane number, 151
Charpy vee notch test, 328, 329
Chief engineer, 341
Circuit breaker, 248-250
Clarifier, 154, 155
Closed
feed system, 100-102
loop control, 299
Cloud point, 151
Clutches, 41, 42
Coalescer, 145
Cochran boiler, 82
Cock, 125

Combustion

boiler, 91

control, 314, 315

suspended flame, 94
Common rail fuel system, 25
Commutating poles, 254, 265
Composite boiler, 82, 85
Compound wound

generator, 255

motor, 266
Compounding

cross, 55

pressure, 55

velocity, 55
Compressors

air, 134-137

refrigerant, 166-168
Computing relays, 300
Condenser

auxiliary steam, 103

refrigerant, 168

regenerative steam, 103, 104
Contact feed heaters, 101
Container refrigeration, 174
Continuous maximum rated (CMR), 253
Control

air, 136, 137

console, 317

integrated, 325

systems, 310-317

theory, 298, 299
Controlled atmosphere, 174, 175
Controlled rolling, 332
Controller action

derivative, 304

integral, 303, 304

proportional, 303

two-step or on-off, 302, 303
Controllers

electronic, 306, 307

pneumatic, 305, 306
Cooling, 30-33

diesel engine fresh water, 30-31

diesel engine salt water, 31-33

jacket, 30-31

piston, 31

water temperature control, 315-317
Copper, 335
Correcting unit, 308-310
Corrosion, 331

inhibition, 152
Couon, 337
Couplings

hydraulic, 41

membrane, 69, 70
Crane, 185, 186
Crankcase

explosions, 37, 38

oil mist detector, 37

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 356 ---
Crankshaft, 14, 15
Creep test, 329
Crevice corrosion, 339
Critical temperature, 165
Cupronickel, 336
Curtis turbine, 57
Cylinder

liner, 15

lubrication, 30

relief valve, 37

Data logging, 309, 310, 318, 319, 336, 343
De Laval turbine, 57
De-aerator, 101, 108, 109
Dead-band, 313
Deepwell pump, 120, 122
Delivery oil separator, 169
Demulsibility, 152
Derivative control, 304
Derrick topping lift, 184
Desired value, 299
Detergent oil, 158
Devaporiser, 108, 109
Deviation, 299
Diaphragm, 61
pressure gauge, 282
Diesel index, 151
Diffuser, 120, 121
Direct current
distribution, 255-257
generators, 254, 255
motors, 265~267
paralleling of generators, 258
supply, 258
Direct expansion refrigeration system, 173
Direct on-line starting, 268
Distillation systems, 141-144
Distribution
alternating current, 262, 263
direct current, 255-257
Domestic water
systems, 132, 133
treatment, 133
Donkeymen, 341
Double
evaporation boilers, 83
flow turbine, 60
Downcomers, 73, 77
Drain pipe, 90, 91
Drains
cooler, 107
pipeline, 130
steam turbine, 62
Draught
balanced, 91
forced, 91
induced, 91

Index 367

Drier, 171

Dry powder extinguisher, 238
Ductility, 326

Dummy piston, 60

Duty engineer, 346

Dye penetrant testing, 330

Earth indicating lights, 257
Economiser, 74, 77
Ejectors, 124
Elastic limit, 328
Elasticity, 326
Electric

governor, 37

steering gear, 224, 227
Electrical

engineer, 341

hazards, 277, 278

supply control, 324
Electrochemical corrosion, 339
Elongation, 334
Emergency

fire pump, 194, 195

generator, 193

supply, 275
Enclosed space entry, 252
Enclosures, 254
End thrust, 59, 60
Energy, 352
Engine indicator, 15, 16
Engineering drawing, 360-363
Equaliser bus-bar, 258
Erosion, 340
Evaporators

boiling, 141, 142

flash, 142, 143

refrigerant, 169-171
Exciter, 260-262
Exhaust gas

boilers, 85

emissions, 162

heat exchangers, 84
Exhaust steam pressure control, 312-313
Expansion

arrangements, 64, 65

piece, 130

valve, 170, 171
Explosion relief valve, 37
Extraction pump, 103, 104
Extrusion, 332

Factor of safety, 328
Fatigue test, 329, 330
Feed
check valve, 85
filter tank, 99
heaters, 107, 110

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 357 ---
368 index

Feed pump
electrofeeder, 109, 110
turbo, 109, 110
Feedback, 300
Feedwater
purity, 94-96
treatment, 96
Filters, 159-162
Fire
accommodation, 248
alarm, 233, 234
cargo spaces, 249
class, 231
control, 234
detection, 232, 233
fighting equipment, 234-247
fighting strategy, 247-250
machinery spaces, 248
mains, 239, 240
Firetube boiler, 81, 82
First angle projection, 360
Fixed installations, 239-245
Flame
detector, 232
trap, 35
Flammable limits, 249
Flash point, 151, 231
Flexible coupling, 69, 70
Flow control valve, 170, 171
Flow measurement
orifice plate, 288, 289
quantity, 287
velocity, 288, 289
venturi tube, 288, 289
Fluid coupling, 41
Fluorescent dyes, 141
Foam extinguisher
chemical, 234, 235
mechanical, 235
Foam spreading systems, 242, 243
Foamed plastics, 336
Foaming, 95
Force, 351
Force balance transmitter, 300
Forging, 332
Foster Wheeler boilers, 76-79
Four-ram steering gear, 220-224
Four-stroke
cycle, 8,9
engine, 13, 14
Fourth Engineer, 341
Freon, 165
Fuel
coefficient, 359
estimating, 358-360
injection, 22-28
pump, 23-25
valve, 25
Fuel oil properties, 150-152

Fuel oil supply
boiler, 91, 92
diesel engine, 20-22
Funnel gas inerting, 245, 246
Furnace wall construction
membrane wall, 80
monowall, 80
tangent tube, 80
Fuse, 256

Gate valve, 127
Gauge
glasses, 86-88
pressure, 279, 352, 353
Gearboxes
medium-speed diesel, 40, 42, 43
steam turbine, 66-69
Gears
double reduction, 66, 68, 69
epicyclic, 66, 67
helical, 66
Generator
alternating current, 259, 262
direct current, 254, 255
Gland sealing, 60, 61
Gland steam condenser, 107
Glass reinforced plastic (GRP), 337
Globe valve, 125, 126
Governors
electrical, 37
mechanical, 35-37
Gravity davit, 196, 197
Guardian valve, 65

Halon system, 245-247
Hardening, 332
Hardness, 326
test, 329
Hatch covers, 186-187
Head loss-flow characteristic, 113, 114
Heat, 353
Heat detector, 233
Heat exchangers
maintenance, 139
operation, 139
plate type, 139
shell and tube type, 138, 139
Heat treatment, 331, 333
Heaters, 141
Heavy fuel, 157
Hele-Shaw pump, 212-214
High expansion foam, 242, 243
High-pressure feed heater, 110
Homogeniser, 158
Hotwell, 99-100
Hunting gear, 220
Hydraulic balance, 121
Hydraulic coupling, 41

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 358 ---
Hydraulic systems

closed loop, 181

live line, 181

open loop, 181
Hydrazine, 96
Hydrometer, 273
Hydrostatic release, 196

Ignition quality, 150
Impact test, 328, 329
Impeller, 119
Improved high lift safety valve, 90
Impressed current, 340
Impulse turbine, 54, 57
Incinerator, 148, 149
Indicated power, 15, 354-356
Indicator diagrams, 354
Induction motor, 267, 268
Induction motor starting
auto transformer, 268, 269
direct on-line, 268
star delta, 268
stator resistance, 269
Inert gas generator, 244
Injector, 27, 28
Injector pump, 22-25
Insultion class, 254
Insulation resistance measurements, 276,
277
Integral control, 304, 305
Integrated control, 325
Intermediate shafting, 200, 205
International shore connection, 240
Interpoles, 254, 265
Iron and steel production, 330, 331

Jerk pump, 22, 23
Journal bush, 203
Junior engineer, 341

Killed steel, 331

Labyrinth gland, 60

Leak detector lamp, 174

Level measurement
float operated, 286
pneumatic gauge, 286, 287
sight or gauge glass, 86-88

Lifeboats, 195-197

Liferafts, 196, 198

Lignum vitae, 204, 337

Linear strain, 327

Liquid receiver, 171

Liquid ring primer, 122, 123

Log, 343

Loop scavenging, 19, 20

Lost motion clutch, 43, 44

Low level alarm, 85

Low pressure feed heater, 107

Index 369

Lubricating oils
centrifuging, 158
properties, 152, 153
slow-speed diesel, 153
trunk piston engine, 153
turbine, 153

Lubrication
cylinder, 30
diesel engine system, 29, 30
steam turbine, 63, 64

Machine rating, 253, 354
Machinery

arrangement, 2-5

contol room, 317

geared medium-speed diesel, 3, 4

slow-speed diesel, 2, 3

steam turbine, 4-6
Machining, 331
Main steam stop valve, 85
Malleability, 325
MAN B&W engine, 47, 48
Manouevring valves, 68
Manometer, 279, 280
Mass, 351
Master controller, 316
Material forming, 332, 333
Mean effective pressure, 354
Mechanical efficiency, 356
Mechanical governor, 35, 36
Medium-speed diesel, 39, 40
Megger tester, 276, 277
Membrane coupling, 69, 70
Membrane wall, 80
Microbiological infestation, 162
Mimic diagrams, 317
Miniature circuit breaker, 263
Modulus of Elasticity (E), 328
Monel metal, 336
Monowall, 80
Montreal Protocol, 166
Mooring winch, 182
Moulded case circuit breaker, 263
Moving coil meter, 289, 291
Mud box, 128, 129

Navigation lights, 275, 276
Net positive suction head, 113
Non-destructive testing
dye penetrant, 330
radiography, 330
ultrasonics, 330
Non-return valve, 126
Normalising, 332
NO,, 162
Nozzle and flapper, 299, 300
Nozzles, 61, 62
Nylon, 337

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 359 ---
370 Index

Observation tank, 99
Offset, 303
Oil in water monitor, 297, 298
Oil treatment, 153-158
Oil/water separator, 144, 145
Open feed system, 99, 100
Operating procedures

boiler, 97-98

diesel engine, 50-52

feed system, 110, 111

steam turbine, 70-72
Opposed piston cycle, 10-12
Oxidation resistance, 152
Oxygen analyser, 296, 297

Panting plates, 64
Paralleling
alternators, 264
generators, 258
Parsons turbine, 57
Periodic safety routines, 347, 348
Permanent hardness, 96
Photoelectric cell, 37, 297
Pielstick engine, 50
Piezoelectric pressure transducer, 283
Pilgrim nut, 206, 207
Pipes, 124, 125
Piping systems, 124-133
bilge and ballast, 103-133
domestic, 132, 133
Piston, 13
Pitch, 205, 357
Plasticity, 326
Plastics, 336
Plate type gauge glass, 86-88
Pneumatic control valve, 308-310
Pole changing, 268
Polytetrafluorethylene (PTFE), 337
Polyvinylchloride (PVC), 338
Position balance transmitter, 299, 300
Pour point, 151]
Power, 352
estimation, 357, 358
factor, 260
indicated, 354
measurement, 15, 16, 353-356
shaft, 356
utilisation, 356, 357
Preferential wipping, 257
Pressure, 352
Pressure compounding, 55
Pressure jet burner, 92, 93
Priming
boiler, 95
pump, 121, 122
Proof stress, 328
Propeller
controllable-pitch, 207-209
efficiency, 357

mounting, 206, 207
slip, 357
solid fixed-pitch, 205, 206
Properties of materials, 333, 334
Proportional
band, 303
control, 303
Pumpman, 342
Pumps, 115-124
axial flow, 117, 118
centrifugal, 119-124
displacement, 115-117
extraction, 103
feed, 109
supercavitating, 105
Purifier, 154

Quick closing valve, 128

Radiant boiler, 78, 79
Radiation pyrometer, 284
Radiography, 330
Rapson slide, 223
Rateau turbine, 57
Reaction turbine, 54, 55
Reciprocating pump, 115-117
Recirculating feed line, 102
Refracatory, 77, 80
Refrigerants
environmentally friendly, 166
primary, 164, 165
secondary, 166
Refrigeration, 163~175
system faults, 175
Refrigeration engineer, 341
Regenerative condenser, 103, 104
Relative humidity, 175
Relay, 301
Relief valve, 37, 127, 128
Rescue boat, 196
Residual carbon, 151
Residual fuel, 150
Resin, 338
Reverse
current protection, 258
power protection, 264
Reversing
medium-speed diesel, 43
slow-speed diesel, 43, 44
Rimmed steel, 331
Roll stabilisation, 187-191
Rotary vane steering gear, 224
Rotating cup burner, 92, 93
Rotary vane displacement pump, 116,
117
Rotor, 58
Rubber, 338
Rusting, 339

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 360 ---
Sacrificial anode, 340
Safe working practices, 251, 252
Safety equipment, 193-199
emergency fire pump, 194, 195
emergency generator, 193
lifeboats, 195-197
liferafts, 196, 198
whistle, 198, 199
Safety valves, 85, 88-91
Salinometer, 295
Sampling connection, 85
Scales, 363
Scavenge fires, 20
Scavenging
cross flow, 19
loop, 19
uniflow, 19
Scoop circulation, 119
Screw displacement pump, 116, 117
Screw-down non-return (SDNR) valve,
126
Screw lift valve, 125
Scum vaive, 85
Second Engineer, 341
Section board, 255
Selective Catalytic Reduction Systems,
162
Series wound motor, 266
Servomotor, 43
Sewage treatment
biological, 146-148
chemical, 146, 147
Shaft
bearings, 203
power, 356
Shafting, 205
Ships, 1, 2
Shrinkage, 311
Shunt wound motor, 265
SI units, 349-351
Single phasing, 269
Sintering, 332
Slave controller, 316
Sliding feet, 64
Slip, 355
Slipper pad pump, 214
Slow-speed diesel, 39, 40
Smoke detector, 232
Soda-acid extinguisher, 234
Soldering, 338
Sootblowers, 86
SO,, 162
Specific
fuel consumption, 359
gravity, 150
Split range control, 312
Split windlass, 184
Sprinkler system, 240, 241
Squirrel cage motor, 267, 268

Index 371

Stabilisers
fin, 188, 189
tank, 189-191

Star delta starting, 268
Starting air system, 33, 34
Static frequency convertor, 262
Statically excited alternator, 261
Stator resistance starting, 268
Steam
blast burner, 92, 93
dried, 73
drum, 73
generation, 73, 74
saturated, 73
superheated, 74
temperature control, 313, 314
trap, 130
Steam-to-steam generator, 83
Steaming economiser, 78
Steel, 332
Steering gear, 211-230
all electric, 224, 227
charging, 223, 224
electrical control, 219
forked tiller, 223
ram type, 219-224
requirements, 211
rotary vane type, 224-226
round tiller, 223
telemotor control, 214, 216, 217
testing, 230
twin system, 228-230
Sterntube bearing, 204
Sterntube seals, 204
Storekeeper, 342
Strain, 327
Strainer, 159
Stress, 327
Sulphur content, 15]
Sulzer engine, 43-47
Supercharging, 17
Superheater, 74
circulating valves, 85
Swash plate pump, 214, 215
Swell, 311
Synchronising lamps, 264
Synchroscope, 264

Tachometers
electrical, 290, 291
mechanical, 290

Tailshaft, 205

Tangent tube, 80

Tank type boiler, 81

Telemotor control, 214, 216, 217

Temperature, 353

Tempering, 332

Temporary hardness, 96

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 361 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 362 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 363 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 364 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 365 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 366 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 367 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 368 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 369 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 370 ---
372 Index

Tensile

strength, 326

test, 327, 328
Thermistor, 286
Thermocouple, 284
Thermometer

bimetallic strip, 284
Thermometer (cont.)

liquid in glass, 283

liquid in metal, 284
Thermoplastics, 336
Thermosetting plastics, 336
Thermostatic expansion valve, 170
Third Engineer, 341
Three-phase supply, 259
Three-term controller, 305, 306
Tiller, 220
Timing diagram

four-stroke cycle, 8, 10

two-stroke cycle, 10, 12
Timing valve, 26, 27
Tin, 335
Titanium, 335
Torsionmeter, 16, 291-293

differential transformer, 293

strain gauge, 292, 293
Total Base Number, 152
Total hardness, 96
Toughness, 326
Transmission system, 260
Transmitters

electrical, 300-302

hydraulic, 302

pneumatic, 299, 300
Tubes

header, 76

screen, 77

waterwall, 73, 76
Turbine

construction, 57, 58

protection, 65, 66
Turbo

charger, 17, 18

feed pump, 110
Turning gear, 39, 69
Two-ram steering gear, 219-224
Two-stroke

cycle, 9~11

engine, 14, 15

Ultimate tensile strength (UTS), 328

Ultrasonic testing, 330

Unattended machinery spaces (UMS), 318,
346

Undercooling, 103

Uniflow scavenging, 19

Union purchase rig, 184, 185

U-tube manometer, 279

Vacuum degassed steel, 331
Valve
auxiliary steam stop, 85
blow down, 85
Valve (cont.)
chest, 128
cock, 125
feed check, 85
gate, 127
globe, 125, 126
main steam stop, 85
non-return, 126
positioner, 308, 310
quick closing, 128
relief, 127, 128
safety, 85, 88-91
screw-down non-return, 126
screwlift, 125
scum, 85
superheater circulating, 86
whistle stop, 85
Vapour compression cycle, 163
Variable delivery pumps, 212-214
Velocity compounding, 55
Ventilation, 163, 179
forced, 179
machinery space, 179
natural, 179
Viscosity, 150, 152
measurement, 293-295
Voltmeter, 258, 289, 290
Volume, 353
Volute, 119

Ward-Leonard speed control, 180, 274,
275
Warp end, 182
Watchkeepng
duties, 342-346
system, 342
Water
drum, 73
hammer, 130
level gauge, 85-88
mist (fog), 241, 242
ring primer, 122, 123
Watertight doors, 190, 191
Watertube boiler, 75-79
Wattmeter, 264
Welding, 338, 339
Whistle, 197, 198
stop valve, 85
White metal, 336
Windlass, 182-184
Work, 352

X-rays, 330
Yield point, 328
Zine, 335

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 371 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 372 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 373 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 374 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 375 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 376 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 377 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 378 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 379 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 380 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 381 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 382 ---

---PAGE BREAK---

--- Page 383 ---

---PAGE BREAK---
