--- Page 1 ---


--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---


--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
THE DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS,


--- Page 7 ---
gles GRIFFIN & G0.’S" PUBLICATIONS.
oper al a Be LET TH
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE oF.
‘DOCK ENGINEERING.

By BRYSSON CUNNINGHAM.

GENERAL CONTENTS.
Historical and Discurstve—Dom Design--Constructive Apphances—Materials—Dock
| Quay Walltgntrance Arn Goes ities, Wharves, and Piorsg-Dock Gate

| Cainons—Triaitesheds and WMalouses—Dock Bridges—Uraving and. Repairing

aks—Working Eqyipment of Docks—I

We have nfec en a. more profane rant

sold e te the Hage ofall dick ait harhour engineer
_ rs

a Largo 8vo. Pp. i-xii+288, With 18 Plates, 11 Tables, and 220dbllustrat@ns in the

Toxt, 16s, net
A COMPANION VOLUME TO “DOCK enoaneefine.”

'HE PRINCIPLES AND P: CTICE -OF.
‘HARBOUR ENGINEERING.%

By BRYSSON CUNNINGHAM.
Coxrants.—Introductory —Harlonr Design —Surveying, Marine gpd Submarifie—
ing—Stone, Natural and Artifcial—Breakwater Dosigu—Breakwates Construction—
mheads, Quays, and Landing Stayes—Kntrance Channels—Channelg Demareation—
DEX.

Jews met important standard work,

"—Kngineer.

"The best
“This ta

moat complete book we have wen on the subject.-Stamakip,
standard work « « » aure to prove n valuable book wf roference,’—Shipping World,

1 Crown Bvo, Handsome Cloth, Pp.4-xiv4604. With man ies, ra
7 Coloured and 16 other Plates, 12s, uet, ‘adage

HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEYING.
By COMMANDER S. MESSUM, RN,

Instructor in Nautical Surveying, XN, College, Greenwich,
jonTENTS,—Sextant— fre sain Poittter-—Theodolite—Projectios—Symbols

‘Evbreviati lo:ting auf, Tviangflatioy of a Sigal! Man—Mfust-ead Angle Survey
‘Meridian Distances—At I

In Medipyy 2c eped-xx +313, With 866 Figures and 23 TSbtes, 26s, net,

ELECTRIC CRANE, CONSTRUCTION.
_ By CLAUDE V. HIYL, A.MInst.C.E, M.LEE,“ete,

8.X,Overhead Cranes—Kbcomotive and Portable Jib Cranes—Derrick Gratf®S
s-—Sheer legs—Revolving Cantilever Cranes Caldew! jewSys—Iower feqtiired fo
frge_Startfig Torque and ARogleration Design of Urane Structured Designo
Toothed eGearing—Hooks—Lifffhg Magnets, ‘Ropes and Cranes
Motors, Controllers and Oglectre—Crajd asain gO
os

ARLES GRIFFIN & CO, LID, Exeree Smeel, Sn



--- Page 8 ---
THE DESIGN

AND

CONSTRUCTION ‘OF SHIPS.

ny

JOHN HARVARD BILKS, LL.D., D.8e.,

“it ov NAVAL AKUIUTECTUNE IN THR URIVERSMY OP OLASOOW.

Vi OU. IL--STABILITY, RESISTANCE, PROPULSION, AND
OSCILLATIONS OF SHIPS,

‘With 316 Flustrations, including 4 Folding Plates,

LONDOMs
SHARLSS GRIFFIN AND GOMPANY, LI
. 2 sTREET, STRAND,
WH,

LAU Rights Reserved.)


--- Page 9 ---
\o74-


--- Page 10 ---
PREFACE,

Tms volume, like the provious one, embodies the Lectrzes on the subjects
dealt with as given at the University of Glasgow. It was intended to have
compleied the.subject of the title of the hook, Design and Construction of
Ships, in .wo vylumes, Int the rapid growth of waterial which should be
ihéluded ix the subject und the decline of available time to devote to such
work have together dehyed the completion of it, and haye made it
desirable at this stage to publish a second volume, ‘The parts of the subject
‘sineltided in this volume are Stability, Resistance, Propulsion, and Oscillations
of Ships. -

In ship, forms the determination of Stability is usually made by methods
of calculations similar to those explained fully in Volume I. To these methods
many porsovs have contributed, but probably few will be disposed to grudge
to the Inte fr,F. K. Barnes the hopour of having laid securely the founda-
tionguper. which Sir William White, Sir’ Philip Watts, and others have built
up our very complote mastery of this subject. Tho methods at present used
aré very different to those used by Mr Barnes and his coadjutors. ‘The intro-
duction of the planimeter, the integrator, and the integraph, calculating
iustruments invented by Amsler and Coradi, has broadened our grasp of
this subject by naking easy the calculations upon which Sir William White
and Sir Philip Watts ay otvors in their early days spent many weary houre,
‘These instruments hcwe made it possible to siave sticbility calculations made
by a inuch less kighly skilled class of calculators, Theanthor remembers with
much pleasure the ease with whick, at Clydebank, Mr Archibald Campbell, now
at Ferrol, Mfr Joon Paterson, Naval Architect to Messrs John Brown & Co,
and M: A. W. Stowart, Electrical Enginger, and others, then lads fresh
fronr school, usec’ Amslor’s integrator wheh it was firgt applied to stability
calcalations. eS

The purely goomcirical side of the study of stability, t.., that side whlch
is connested with theorems,’and not with actual values, own its existence.
almost ,completely to the French writer Dupin, Extensions of tie geometry


--- Page 11 ---
vu ‘WREFACE.

of stability. ave been made from time to time by.other writers,® Methods
of proof “of Dipin’sg propositions and the lator extensions are here giver
iffertng. ‘fn many cases from the original proofs, becguse sthe yaeth
seemed to thgauthor better suited*to the purpose of the student? Tofthe
methods of obtaining actual velues th author has devoted considerable
attention, with a view to producing simple processes which can ¢e used by
operators of small experience, agkd with much less labour than’ the older
processes. . te .

The work on Resistance and Propulsion cannot fail to be largely an
adaptation of the-gublished work of thoke who have been fortunate enough
to have the use of Sxporimental tanks, from which alone such results ean be
obtained, ‘The work of the late Mr Wm, Froude and his son Dr Rt, Bx Froude
has been largely laid under contribution. Some of the agaptattions ave been
unde by following the ofiginal closely, rather ghan by making changes of
doubtful advantage to the student. ‘This has the advantage of dccasioning
less frequent references to the original text of these @ritery, an 'igvantage
cess!

which it is hoped will be of value to students, as the size, cost, and Ma

bility of the volumes of the ‘Trunsactions in which the work originally
appeared are considerable. ‘The work of Mr D. W. Taylor of the American
Navy, read before the American Society of Naval Architects, has léxgoly been
used in a similar way, but since this volume has been in type a valuable
collection of published, Professor Sadler’s work in the
University of Mich tange Bf full forms (read Also before the
American Socicty of Naval Architects), and that of others, has*peen alse
given. Messrs Denny of Dumbarton have from time to time given the authgr
information as to the Resistance of specific forms, and in some cases the

is work has hee
on

information is embodied in Chapter XIV. in dingrams, giving for exch of a
series of speeds the H.P. required tosirive any required displacement.“

‘of revolutions of” engines, become
». ‘The experimental
“jas been in advance

Propulsion bas, by the gy
one of the most importdn 5 subj.
work in conection with the determitition of Resistafi
of that of [raged rorethe Inst forty yours, Int now they*are nearer than
ever to being abreast of each other. ‘This is due to the work of Dr R. Be
Froude and Mr D. W. Taylor, and to Messrs Denny, {those works none the
Jess reat and wihuuble though ithedunot be exuctly appraised, as mitch ge
has not been publishe&.

The work @ Opiflations of Ships™is m the Teast Iully developed state ot
the four divising of thin yolume, ‘The work’ of thetGlder raude hin, had
little of vi ly fadded to it since his time, ‘The epoch-making djscowery "that
gual stability and great steadiness were correlated has been acted oif in all



--- Page 12 ---
~ FREFACKg

navies. The extreme onges with which ho dealt sre all that ha
investigated. They aro, ist, where the periods of the wave af

J equal, in which case oxcessive rolling takes place.” Sovond,
shtXs period s indefinitely great compared with that of the’
case Yhe ship remnins practically upright. ‘Third, whore tho shiip’s period is
indefinitely small compared with that of the wave, in which ease the ship's
mast fSllows the wave normal, ‘The second qnd third are unreal cases, and
tho first is very imusual. The intermediate conditions be 2 not been in-
vestigated theoretically, hough at sea,/itany of thei “ave boon prctioally
exporiencod in all kinds of ships.

To Mr A. Architecture Department of
this University, the author fy iitlebted for assistance in the collection and
correct

amon, Assistant in the Naval

n of the Lectures on which « considerable part of this volume is
based, ama for the’ correction of the proofs, aud for some valuable
sugyestionys

Leegrets are offer} to those who may have heen good enough to have
erected that this volte would have beon issued sooner, and that it would

have completed the work on this subject.

* The werk on Design has proved to be much more voluminous than was
expected, [vis an clusive subject. ‘Types of ships vary from year to year,
The kind of kuowledge accumulated and stored in the first two of these
volumes is incrensing rapidly, but its application to Design not only causes
additions to our knowledge, but prodnces changes of type of ships and im-
provgmer‘y in results which make the wisdom of a few years ago the folly
of today. Much less help ean be given by others to the student in matters
of Design than in other parts of the subject, He can only become a coni
potent designer by making designs ; and while theories and data can be given
tu him, their applica

tion can only be his own work, An attempt, however,
will be made in the next yolume, to put soae information and examples
before the student to w'ich tic may refer for assistaace at present, but to
which in tho fufure “2 will probably lo.« back with” the same reverent or
irroverent fecling’s as we look back upon the work of c:...2yo(lecessors.

To those Reviewers who noticed the first volume the Authér is grateful
for the unifermly kind way in which it was réccived.

. ! JOHN HARVARD BILES.
March 1911.



--- Page 13 ---


--- Page 14 ---
CONTENT

PART IV.) STABILITY.

cuaerin
J. Righ ing Arms anil Moments

LL Stability of Ibating Budies generally. :
ILE, Determination of Coordinates of B for a Given Form from a Similar

Bam of Diller

 Geometricnl Properties of Isovels, ete,

AV. Methods of Findmg Stability

PARI V. RESISTANCE.

‘nV Hydirsistance to being Set inAMotion
VIL. Present Theory of Kesistance
IX. Waves.

. Wave-muking Resistance of Ships

"XL. Determination of the Resistanse of Shipe from Model Experiments
XIL, Resistance Résulte and Mgplod of Standardising,” =. *
XIIL, Sadler's Resistance Results", + a

XTV.+ Other Resiste ice Kesutts

buna ey

XV. Determination of Machinery Horse-Power fr Resistance Horse-Power_,

XVI,

Influence of Lepulros Water on Speed .

PART VI. PROPULSION.

XVIL. Elementary Sonsiderytibsror Propulsion
XVII, “Propeller and Propeller Kftiency) =. 8,
NIN, Prostical’Application of Experimental Model Results .

pagRs
1-12

13-21

22-81
32-48
49-90

91-100
101-105
106-119,
120-185
136-154
155-176
177-196

> 197-210
211-230
281-283
234-241

242-272
278-282,
288-294


--- Page 15 ---
‘4 ee « CONTENTS.
gps XXedlfhhe Relition between ‘Type, Area, Dimensichs, and Efficiency of
eg WA Boru Propellers. . ws,

s@$kt. Terlor’s Experiments on the Determination of Dimersions for Sevew
© Propels...

XXIL Effect on Thickness, Kake, and ‘3hape of Blade upon Prqpeller
Efficiency . : foe . + y+ * 828-888

XXIII, Pressuires near Propeller.’ Test of Laws of Comparison and Cavitation 884-848

XXIV. Appl of Model Bxpé:imental Results to the Design of Tro-
ellers and the Determination of Efficiency in Full-sized Ships . 844-854

XXV. Rel

hetween Indicated and “Shaft Horse-Power, Progressive

Speed Trials Oo | 356-860
PART VII. OSCILLATIONS OF SHIPS. .
. General Considerations of the Motion of a Ship when at Sen . =. 961-867"
. Vnresisted Rolling in Still Water. “ s08-s7¢
|. Resisted Rolling in Still Water (Hxperimental Investigations) «© Bis-880
. Resisted Rolling in Still Water (continued)... 8816887
. Rolling amongst Waves Soe .. 3p8-897
XXXL. The Gruphie Process of Integrating the Equation of Rolling ford Shrp 898-411
XXXIL Method of Reducing Rolling by Lilge eels. 412-416
XXXIH, Means of Restricting Rolling by Moving Objects =... 417-420

IV, Pitehing and Dipping Oscillations =. ks

Inpex ,



--- Page 16 ---
THE
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
OF. SHIPS.

PART IV.
STABILITY.

CHAPTER 1.
RIGHTING ARMS AND MOMENTS.

.
In Part II. Vol. 1. the methods of finding volumes and centres of gravity of
solidghave been discussed. In this chapter it is proposed to consider fully
the action of the forces upon ship when at rest in still water, and when
slightly disturbed from this position of rest to another position.

Befig. 1, suppose B to he the centre of gravity of the volume of water V
displaced by the ship SSS (called the contre ofgbuoyancy, or O.B,), and
suppose (i to be the centre of gravty of the whole bf the sjaterial in tye ship
(called the C. At rost, the weight may be cou idered as concentrated at
G, and the buoyancy or sfpporting force utB. "The weight and buoyancy
foroos are equal und ppposite, and act vertically in the same Tin

Suppose that some force F, whose point of appligation *,,!, juclives the
vessel until she is again at rest in the pesition ‘shown by“the dotted
section S'S'She 9

The point G will movc‘to G, the same position relatively to the structure
es beff¥,and the volume displawed will probisly be of w differcat form to
fat i in the. upright position.

tke “force F displacing tt ship from its upright podtion ofe reat be
acting in some direetion, say A ,,other than horizontal or vertical, we may
repolve it by the parallelogam of forces, into horizoutal and vertical components
Fy and fy respectively, acting iff Db and C4, The Vertical componcat will
cause an ingtease of volume of water displaced equal in weight to this vertical

VOL. 1, * .



--- Page 17 ---
THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF "SHIP.
a)

cot ‘The centre of gravity. of this incréase of volume may not actin
“the samd vertical line as the vertical component of the applied force,
“AL W L,be the position of the waterline in the vesscl when she is upright,
ahd WL! be the position of this same line when thg vessel is inclined, and
“W;'L, be the water surface in both conditions, we may ‘cut off fromthe ship
SISTSta yolume below W, Ly equal tothe increase of volume which the vertical
component Fy causes to Le displaced. ‘The horizontal component Fy will tend
to move the vessel bodily to the right, and must be resisted: hy some force
X in order that there shali be equilbrium. If this foree R be resolvable
into verticdii.e4 horizontal components Ry and Ry, respectively, the former

i &

"Rot

aust be treated in the

" the vertical component of -the appliad
foree., Let W. 1. be the water

parallel to W, 1, which the resultant of
Fy and Ry'cuts off in Volume, If its contre of gravity is at g we shall have #
couple formed by the foree Fy and the leverage yh and ity with leverage
wh, tending to overset the ve sel.
<Phe force Ry must be equi lio Fy, or the vessel will move bod). Thi
force Ry will form a couple with Fy. Its moment will be Fy, p. The weigh;
of the ship will act downward through G!, and the bnoyaney, equal iy amoum
to the orjginal buoyancy in the upright condition, will eet upwards througl
B,, the centre of gravity of the volume below th line WyL, which volum:
is the same as that in. the upright coiditio... These two forces, the weigh
and buoyancy, form a couple W. GZ; W being the weight of the ship,



--- Page 18 ---
RIGHTING ARMS AND MOMENTS.

Vit-the point B, is to the fight of (i, the couple tends to ‘bring the ship
rack to the upright, and vice verad, We have thus the follawing couples in“
the figure as drawn. oy gt

1. An upsetting egtple due to Fy and I,aund the buoyuney of the layé
2, » Fumyl By=tyo
3, Arighting couple, Wo o=Wx ay.
f there Js equifbrium, the algebraic sum of they: must be =
The case. may b+ simplified by assuming that both the applied force F
vnd the resisting force It act horizontally aud are equal, av.3e%4f consequence,
ihe volume of displiement remains wicho aged, For equilibrgin, the value
WV. Z must equal the moment bp of the inclining foree, ‘THie value varies

with the angle of in all dyzles it is apssible
to determine the angle at wich equilibyium will Gist fog a known inclining
moment. With a fixed poSttion of G the proBlem Tecoifes one of finding the
ptsition of B, for apgiven inclination, This would he easily done were the
volume of displiement at a yiven angle determmed, gWe ku:*syhat if ought
to be, the same 1 the upright position, hut to know exactly
waterline is that wil Ent,off, at x given inclingfion, a given displacement, is
aot so casy. ¢ Turning to fig. 2, suppose W ly afd W, 1, to be the positions in
the béHJRof such a waterline in the upright ahd inclined positions, the angle
of inclination Being @.@ The volume Le W)KL,=¥ the volume of
displacemdnt. W, KL is coma to WKJeand WYK Ly, so'thut ©
. Wry, =V-W,KL
LFL
=, say.



--- Page 19 ---
THR DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

v ig the volume of the wedge of emersion br submersion, and therefbre
the wedge of erxersion WF W, ix equal to the wedge of submersion LF L,.
If B, is the centre of buoyancy of tile volume W KL, then V.GZ will be
the’ moment of the buoyancy causing the vessel to eeturn to the upright,
tity V.GZ is expressed in units of weight, eadh equal te’ the weight
ofa unite! volume. This noment ic. called the righting moment, and is the
measure of what is known as the stability of the vessel at the particular angle
of inclination 6. ro
he of such a form that all waterlines cutting df equal
volumes pass’ squgh the point Q, it will e ekact form and
position of the centre of gravity pf a volume of the solid which has constant
displac But generally this is not so. ‘The waterline W, Ly ents off
from the uprignt solid ny, and adds a wedge LOL, =
nay 2. ‘The volume W, K L, then eq ~ 2) +, and this is (as drawn)
ine A is the area of

ss

Hence the volume of the layer Wy W, Ly ux the correcting layer)
is equal to the difference of the wedges 7, If we kuow,this volume
A.K and find A, we eam find K, which will enable us to deterniine the true
position of W, 1). It is evident that we may find the volunies x, aug 4, and
the valne A hy the methods of previous chapters.

Had », been greater than 74, W,L, would have been al
of below it.

\, L, instead j

We can also find the position of Bh. Suppose, in fig. 3, y, and g, to be the
centres of gravity of the wedges v, aud r, respectively. Join y,y, aud drop

perpendienlars y, 4, and y,h, upon W,L,. Take moments of volume about
the line OH drawn perpendicujarly to W, 1, BP as horizontal and perpen-
dicular o OH :

Starting with the volume Vand moment V. BP we first take off , with
the moment »,O/,, then add 7, with moment v,.Oh,, and finally teke off
W,W, L, ly with moment (r,~ r,) Oc, ¢ being the foot of perpendicular let fall ¢
from the centre of gravity of the correcting layer upon W, Ty. ‘The result
of these Ii the volume V(=W, K L,) and ity moment ©
about OH, ion, treating, moments which
turn ¢, the ponitiy . and reductions of volumes as
negative, we hat

VBP ~ moh, oh OC -VPR ‘
VQRP PR) VBR = node, Fret Mmm )OC -Q@

ing moments about BR,
V(BR) = 0,(yjh, + UP) - 2(OP = 9

ah +n,

+ (en MOE Cay)
ov u Mgt ACe(v,¢ my) (2°

* This sign will be + if the excess of volume uf one welgetovér the other belongs to the
rpposite side to ‘which the C.G. of cufreeting layem iq in relation to OP. It i»generally ,
‘emembered, by the expression “like sides give negative.” This means that .f the volame
su submerged oxcess with the C.C. of the eonnediing layer ou the anbmerged side of the
OP the sign Similarly, an merged excess on the emerged sige will'be
.. The other two combinations will give a positive sign,

his sign is always nogative.



--- Page 20 ---
= ARMS AND MOMENTS.

NYence weanay at once find the position of B laterally and’ vertically if we
kndW the positions of y, and y, and the volumes », and ry.

BR=BN + NR= BU sin 64.07%
BR -#U sin = G7
V.BR - V.BG sin 6= Vy
tity + nol, # (0, = %,)OU= V.BG sin O= V.G2,
‘Yo fmd the’ position of 1 vertically we havewsimilarly
(ry mC = VBR “

tly +

case of this ©

nation for V.G 4% is known as Atwood’s formula,

It is obtained by direct iyfestigation, as Atgood botained it, or by substitu.
tion in the equations (1) and (2) of >= =r, when wedbtain

V.BR = o(oh oly) =0.h ly,

then V.GZ= why VBE sin 8)
or Ce re)
. .
» .
and ° oBR= Flys tad ee 0B)

BM from Atwood’s Formula, —* Suppose @ to be ‘sally and the
wrtical through B to intersett the vertical through B, in the poittt M (fig. 4). ~

wow .
8Z—= GM sin O= Gh, — BU sin 6 from (4).


--- Page 21 ---
THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

Suppose 0 W or O L represents y, the half ordinate of the load waterlisfe,
For a amalleingle, the area of the small triangle LO L, is represefted
by $ y' 6 If we suppose this triangle to have a small thickness dit in a

diéetion perpendicular to the paper, we may exprery the volyyme of the
wedge hy «

the limits for by

Fre. 4

The moment of this eld aent of valume abput € is }

« ‘ .
momeut of the transference of the wedge » is nih.

Hence we tay write GM sm @27 8

Jf @ is small, sin 0=6

and

The point M is known in shipshape fofms as the metacentre, “It has
been fully defined in Chapter IX, Part II


--- Page 22 ---
RIGHTING ARMS AND wOMENTS.

L
af ‘pode
This expression is BM=-" Vv ‘
. “, .

We Mat seen thit this expression ¥ | sAete is the form of expression for
the moment of inertia about OX of an ‘rea in the plane X ¥ and sfinmetrical
about the 0 Xaxis,

Now the axis of 0 X is in the direction of the longth of the form, that is,
it is perpensticular to the plane of the paper, and the y ordjnates are the

ordinates like UL, ‘Therefore 3 i Pale is the moment of inertin of the whole

waterphme WO 1, about an axis throygh 0 in the direction of the length,

Calling

oe! we obtitin a series of valucs of G% for a series of angles of inclination
and a given displicementy wo may set off the results in a graphie form thus :

7.

GZ

DEGREES OF INCLINATION.
Fie. 5.

This curve is kuown as a Curve of Righting Arms, or more commonly a
Cuve of Staticnl Stability. We,may call it « curve of (Z's for constant
displacemeht and constant position of G, and for pest angle of heel.

Suppose we have three axc> jit right,angles fb cach ther, as represented
in fig. 6. Suppose-at eachavalye of Vfpr'which Te have 4 curve of stability
(with a constant position BiG) we set mp thé curve of statical stability. It is
‘evident that it is only necessary to have a series of curves for a sufficiently
large number of values of V to make a surface of statical stability. If we
out this surface by a ple parallel to the plane Through ZUY such as in
P,P, Py, the aurva P, P,P, will be one of G van varying displacements and

constant angle of heel (measured by Oh), ff by an independent process of
caleiffition we could obtain a series of curves buch as P, P,P, wagcould obtain
the samo.surfitee of stapical stability as that obtained hy the series of curves
of staticdl stability (or curvor of G % for ‘constant displacement ayd varying
angle of heel). Swch curves as,P, P, P, are called Uross Curves gf Stabili
«The differesce hetwetn a curve of stability and a cross curve of stability
ig that the former is a curve df G 2's for constant edisplacement and varying
inolinatiog, wile the latter is for varying diyplacoment and constant¥inclina-



--- Page 23 ---
THE DESIGN END CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

tion, In the surface above dealt with it is assumed that (i ic unchanfed
in position.
. For each position of (4 there will be a separate surface of statical stability.

Z

2 vawwel or ez.

Suppose we have a known form of ship ab a given inclination, and find

for a waterline W, 1, (fig. 7) the volume of displacement V and the position

‘Fat on

of GB, suy’ B, by any of the methods describell ix ‘an earlier chapter. It
is evident that we have only to find V, ahd 13S V, and By, ete. for other’ water-
Tines W, L,, W, Ly ote. in onder to be able to obtain a curve B, B, B, {yom which



--- Page 24 ---
RIGHTING ARMS AND MOMENTS, 9

We can determine such a cutveas P, P,P, (fig. 6). If we find a series of such
calves for a sories of angles of inclination, we can complesely determine the
surface of statival stability for a known position of the C.G. of the ship. For ,
every position of the C.G. there will be a separate surface of stability, but
they wil Ml be founfled on the positions of the C.B.’s for the diffegeut volumes,
and angles of inclination, Hence iteis desirable to find the Gab’s for all
volumes and all angles of inclination, and then surfaces of statical stability ean
be found for'dctermined positions of G.

ge
fe

Fie. 8, Fra, 9

Hence we see that the determination of the stability resolves itself into
finding voluwes wd (.(,'s of volumes, and ny in all cases be dealt with by
the methods described in Part 11., or some nf'difications of them.

fVetacentric Evolute.—In fig. 8 Tet T; be the position ofethe centfe of
buoyancy in the upright. Let 1B, he the position of the sentre of buoyancy
after thd vessel has been inclined through in angle * ow

Let B, be thesposition of Byufter the vessel has received a further inclina-_
«tion through af angled. ‘| -

Draw the verticals BG, B/M,, and B,M, through the points B, By and B,
respectivély. * *



--- Page 25 ---
10 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS,

If the vessel is symmetrical about the midship section, i.e. if ié is dow
ended and the vessel be inclined about a fore and aft axis, fixed only in dirdo-
tion, the centre pf buoyancy for all transverse inclinations will lie in the midship «
soctidn, but if the ends are not symmetrical, there may be a tendency to
change trimgwhen the vessel is intlined. The verticals "through the*contres
of Lnoyancse corresponding tor two cormucutive positions may not intersect,
but they will be in vertical pines perpendicular to the axis of inclination, i.e.
parallel to the plane of inclittion. ‘The intersection of the %projectjon of
these two lines in a transverse vertical plane may be called the metacentre,
and the locus of tis point is called the Metacontr olute (lig. 99. Mj, the
intersection on_the plane of the paper (parallel to the plane of inclination)
of tho projectien of the v Js through B, and B, (fig. 8), is a point on the
metacentrie cvolute. '

For transverse inclinations it involves generally only an inappresiable
quantity if we consider these verticals 8 hiesin the midship section and fo
intersect at a point M. Its amonnt is sinall, because i.most forms the
departure from symmetry about the mid scetion is smal.

Later wo shall see that the term metavel js suggested “for the locus of the
intersection of verticals (or their projections) through the centres‘of bugyan

In fig. 8 draw perpendiculars from the points Band Gon the verticals
through B, and B,,

let RM,
RB:

RB

The angle R,BR, =.

Now
Again, my =dn

d= der

me fede. .
Heneg we [atom [ [atO.td.
r %, ara

If we have a enroe pf ty My'seor values of fc insferims Of 8 we can get the
curves of BR, and BR, by integration. Integrating once we get the curve,
of valneg of = or values of BR,. Integrating this we get the curve of
values of w or fites of 1, Ry.” These tree curves are shown in fig. 10.

We have seen that

lish +hy,), equation (5), yt 5.

an thay, ©

But.

shay pt Be
coe

a Juteto—iun + hall


--- Page 26 ---
“RIGHTING ARMS AND “vomznrs, u

\, Dynamical Stability —The work done in inclining a vessel through
ah angle dé is W.GZ.d8, and therefore the total work dene in inclining a

ty :
vessel from 0, £5 6, i W [ "Gnas. : oo

The Auamical Stability of a vessel at Any angle ix defined tg be the work
done in inclining the vessel from the upright position (in which she is
assumed to be in statial equilibrium) through that angle. ‘The expression

for tht dynamical stability is therefore W362 48, where @ is the angle
a

through Which the vessel h.s been inclined.

Fic, 10.

< *
Th dvnamical stability = Wf? «z.a9
; °

re g . .
2 WwW [rade “BU si! 8) d6 (ee fig. 8) *
J :

J

~ obs 0+1)
6- BG)

@ oJ oe
=W fi TR, do WBC, sin 6.00
° °
= W.B)Ry - W.BG
=W(BR, + BG,
=W(R,Z, - Buy}

Herfve the dynainical stability is=W(B,Z,-BG). 7 oe

‘The expression (B,Z, ~ BG) is called the Dynamical Arm, ayd is generally
« written 4, so that the dynamical stability is represented hy Wh.

A method of showing diréctly that this is the work done in inclining the

vessel isvas follows (ace fig. 3, p. 5) :—


--- Page 27 ---
12 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS,

{ .
OG is distance of C.G. above or below the waterplane WL in the uprigft

. condition. .
QB +», GB. below the watorplane WL in the upright condition.
8% » CG. above or below the waterglane W, 1 in the

. inclined condition. oe
SB,» CB. helpw the ewaterplane W, I, in the inclined
condition.

Original d2 Xauce between ( and B= BO+0G = Bu,
Finil distanee 4, BOBS 4NZ= DZ,

+". Distancet lag which thes
during the inclination of the vessel = (BZ),

Here, sinew h,/ is > BG, the distance =(B,7.~ Bu),

<¢ Work done in inclining W(B,Ze BU), " (Fig. 3.)

And (8,2 ~ BG) is the quantity prevignsly denoted hy 2,

Ze. work done during inclination = W% « -

Relation between the Statical Curve of Stability ind the
Dynamical Curve.--The statical curve is a curve gf glues of GZ, and
the dynamical curve isa curve of values of f.,

two centres of force have eon? separated

We have seen that wend Wh.

ve fonae=n.

oi. The dy
be obtained di

curve is the integral of the sta
lly from the G% by ordinuy integ

sand it can


--- Page 28 ---
CHAPTER HL.
STABILITY OF FLOATING BODIES GENERALLY.

T¥'this chapter will be investigated the stabilities of bodies in general, that is,
of any form,

Té has beow seen that ¢!e displacement of a body is equal to its weight,
end on the sastumption that the weight is tant and that the C.G, can be
+ will float in equilibrium in many positions. In
ils, bor every pline cutting off from the body a volume of the liquid
diyplaced whose weight is equal to the weight of the body, we have a possible
pline of flotation. For each volume so eut off there’ will be a centre of
buoyancy.

Tf we imagine a body to be slowly rotated about an axis through its C.G.
and fixed in direction, but free to move vertically, the body will adjust itself
verticully so that the weight of the displaced fluid will be equal to the weight
of the body ut every point of the revolution, Hence we shall have an in~
cfinite nuinber of planes in the hody which can be phines of flotation eutting
off coustant volume, Each volume rozresponding to a pline of flotation will
have a contre of buoyanc: ’

When the revolution is completed, the centre of bnoyaney will coincide
with that at the beginning of the revolution.

‘The whole series cf centres of buoyancy whieh have corresponded to the
series of constant volumes submerged during the complete revolution will
form a curve beginning and ending at the centre of buoyancy in the first
position, In other words, it will be a closed eury

If we now rotate the be 'v abeut anoth
otherwise free, as in the former case, we shall jother closed’ curve of
centres of buoyancy which will be differen to the formtr one if the direction
of the axis of rogation he different. We may take au indofinite number of
axes, all having different directions ; in fact we may start with, au axis pointing
to the north, and take every point of the compass Hetween north and south for
the directionof the axis, and to every directicy.’ of axis there will correspond
a closed curve of centres of buoyancy, 'Thtke obvionsly will, if taken closely
enotigh, form a closed surface, which undly ve called 2’ surfuce,of buoyancy.
Hence 4 surfce of buoynney of a body may be defined as, the loci of centres
of gravity of constant volume cut off ffom the form. *We may, for con-
venience, vall this surface of centres of buoyane} the isovel syrface, that is,
«athe surface for conbtane volume and varying inclination, .

Suppose the chosen axis*throwgh the centro of gravity to remain fixed in

direction; only; ss before. Also suppose the whole volume of the bédy to be
13 2

1 in disection, but



--- Page 29 ---
4 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

unchanged, but its weight to be changed grad fatty from nothing to
weight of its whale volume of the liquid in which it is immersed. In ot}
words, let the ody be at first without weight, just touching the water surface, .
and be gradually increased in weight until it is just eqmpletely submerged,
change of position taking place only in a vertical dircetidn, ‘To each volume
submerged {here will correspopd a centre of buoyancy ; and if the volumes
cut off be taken closely enough’ together, these centres ‘of buoyaney will form
a curve, beginning at the tangent plane of the point of no inamersion and
ending at the centre of bnoyhucy of the whole solid, This enrve thay be
called an ravelie. and may be defined as the lacus of centres of buoyaney
corresponding to,volumes cut off at planes perpendicular to u fixed line in the
body. .

Seppo there is a datum line in ihe body passing through the centre of
gravity of the whole volume, and iakiay a known angle with the assomed
vertical alrewly We may uve en indefinite number of lines, *
each of whi making the same known angle with #ae datifing’
ling, and for each of the: y have an isoeliqe, ‘Those isocline ®
curves will form a surf lel an Isocline Mirface of Buoyaney
for the known angle. There aay he an indetmite number of angles, to each
of which would correspond an isoc ¢, and those surfaces in all would
muke pond to the solid formed by the
enveloping su X oe
y, for each volume ext off—from that of no displuwement tthe
whole displicement of the body—there will correspond an isovol surface. These
will form a solid, which could be called san isovol solid, but thatsit ix the same
as the isocline solid and the enveloping surface of the body’ ‘The isovol
surface corresponding to uo displacement will he the enveloping surface of
the body, or the surface which all the tangent plines to the body whieh do
not eut it, would form

Let us first consider some of the priperties of the isoval suface of buoyancy,
the isoelines and other curves, —* :

Ist. Th has been seeu that he isuvol is a closed survieee, and must lie within
the linits of the enveloping surfice of the bndy

2nd. The tangent plane at any point of Mh
plane corresponding to that point. Bor, the
inclination, the centre of hnoyaney changes, has been shown to be parallel*o
the straight line joining the centres of gravity of the wedges of ®mergence
and submersion. “Wao theYugle ix jndgfinitas small, this kutter line coincides
with th waterplund, and tf former line with thadirection of the tangent,
As this is true of sl slirectious wf intlination, a change of direction of the
centre of buoyancy takes place along the tangent line pagullel to the water-+
plane, and therefore in a tangent plane parallel to the waterplane, Hence
all points indeffhitely clost to the original centre of bu ¢ in the same
plane with it, and that ph tangent plane, is payulel to the water-

un ise

isul is purallel to the water-
ont itt which, for a small

TNT
plane. ‘ .
Bra. It hgs no reenteriny pees.’ Ut any part of the surface had ve-enaring
partys tment plane in sone point of the part woul wnt the surface bat

it can be shown that a
surface,

“We have'already seen that a change of Wwaterpiuhe caused by inclining,
the body through a small angle (displuceshent tenaining constant) is equiva-
lent toguking a wedge of volume from the emerged side beloim the guagerling;

gent Yo an isovol surface can ucver ‘ect. the



--- Page 30 ---
STABILITY or, FLOATING BODMES GENERALLY. 16
fg placing, a wodge of thd same volume on the submerged side adove the
wikerline. This necessarily causes a rise in the centre of byoyaney relatively
to the waterplang. :

As tho waterplang is parallel to the tangent plane the centre of buoyaney
will alwaye move ralatively to it in the direction of the waterplane, and,
therefore, its curvature will always yo towards the waterplang, and away
from the tangent plane. Hence the surface cannever have a re-entering part,
and a tangertsplane cannot cut it.

This can also be seen ax follows: >

If the isovel surfac ® re-entrant part, then some
parallel to a plane of flotation amst cut it, and, in the vieinity of the tangent
plane B, the adjacent centres of buoyaney would mov from the plane
parallel to the waterplane, which is jmpoxsible. Further, ‘there would be

angent plane at B,

allel to the same v
ve a solid with Uh

another taiqyent plane at By pa
sponding to B), and we should hi
buoyancy, whfth is impossible.

4th. Hor every isovol there is a complementary isovol similar in form, but
with corresyondiny radii at ISO" from cack other. The pole of similarity is
the centre of volume of the whole solid,

If V bo the volume of displwecment sd B its centre of buoyancy, the
vdlume m of the remainder of the sohd and the position of 4 will be related
to each other hy

terplane as that corre-
¢ positions of centres of

nll = V.BH,

re His the centre of volume of the whole solid, Since B and 6 are
points on the isovols of Vand » volume: their loci will be similar, since

oH=Y BH and © iy constant, he rvdins 611 8 € 180° wo BH.
°

» 7 ,
The limiting isovols dre (i) the enveloping surface got the body, (2) the
point H; so that the complementary isovols which approach very near to

the total volume of the body and to no volume, approach very neur to the
point H and to the cuvcloping surface of the body respectively. The point
H in the limit has the sane shape as the cuve!yping surface, but with all ite
correspondinig radii at. 140°, ‘

fth. For the same angle of inclination, the tangents to the isovolg at
the centre ofsbuoygucy for the same solid and angle of inclindtion will all
have thd sane inclination, as they are pagallel to the warprlines of the same
inclination. Hence ull tangents fo isovals alongsan isocline are parallel to
each other. - Kig.'A2qihows a’set of isovols aud isoclines for a shipshaped,
form. ‘The isovols are for un‘formly varying percentages of the total volume
of the solid. he isoclines are for uniformly varying angles of inclinagion.



--- Page 31 ---
16 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTIQN OF SHIPS.

Curve of Flotation.—To each constant volume of displacement thee
will be a watewplane. Consecutive waterplanes intersect in their cent!
of gravity. -'The locus of centre of gravity of waterplane for gonstant volume
for # given direction of inclination is called a Curve of Rlotation,

Surface of Flotation, or Flotavol.—If the direction of tolination
be varied jffinitely a series gof curv of flotation will be formed, which
together will form a Surface of Flotation for constant volume of displace-
ment. This surface will he the locus of all centres of gravity of waterplane
ontting off constant volume, * ‘

6th. The tangents to the isocline will all pass through the point of the
curve of flotation which corresponds to the centre of buoyaney, which is the
touching poius of the tangent, because each addition to the volume of
displacement for coustant angle of inglination is made by a. small addition
of volume at the waterlini: formed ty a parallel layer whose centre of

1s6voLs|

Fie, 2.
nd is therefore ¢ point on

gravity is in the limit at that of the
the curve of flotation oe

For cach watertine of Yeostant inclination there will be a contre of
gravity of area whieh will be a point n the turve of flotation for one par-
ticular volume and inclination. Hence there will be a curve of flotation of.
constant inclination and varying volume, which may be called a Flotaeline.*
One end of this curve véll ide with the end’A of the corresponding
isocline (at the angle 6), whig is normal to the midship seetipn ; the other
end B will coincide with the cO\responding end of the isocline ay the angle
+m. This is shown in fig, 13," o

This curve will be such that from any poing of ituif a, straight
Tine be drawn ,to! the corresponding (.B., this line will be a twagent to
the isocline. ' .

Tthe Hertce the flotucline isa curne of purshit to thescorvespanding jaocline. ,

* 1 may be noticed that there is the same tlotachue for (0+) and, ai for 0
and Vie


--- Page 32 ---
STABILITY OF FLOATING BODIES GENERALLY, Ww
‘

‘Phe projection of the intersection of consecutive normaly to the isovol
will form the curve known as the metacoutrie evolute, which thay perhaps be
better called the Metavol. Such # curve is shown in fig. 9. .

If we consider the consecutive metaceytres for varying volume and
constant inclination, we shall see that there will be a curve of ingtacentres
for constant inclination. This curve may be calle a Metacline. ©

Bth. A tangent to the metacline will always pass through the centre of
curvaturg of the corresponding flotarel, because the change in position of the
metacentre isle to a small added volume at the correspondipg waterline
which acts for a small inclination through the intersection off consecutive
verticals through consecutive C.(:. of the waterpline, that is,.through the
intersection of consecutive normaly to the flotavol. Hence the’ tangent to

(

Fie. 13,

the curve of metaclines will pass through the corregpondiny, point on centre
of curvature of the flotavol, eh. * my
For constant inchnation und gvaryings vogue, the curye of centres of
curvature of the consecutive flotavols will have its consechtive points on the
tangents to corresponfing consecutive points on the metacline. This curve
thus forms a curve of pumuit to the metacline. Hgnee we have the two
following statements :
1 The flotagineds a curve of pursuit to the isdeline,
2. The lous of the centre of curvaturegof the flotaclines is a curve of
pursuit to the metacline. .
Method of Sbtainfirtg Isoclines and Isovols.—For agy form isoclines
can be dranfn at convenient angles, say 154 30", 458, 60°, etc’, and* isovols
are geverlly dr drawn yb yuffory percontages of the total volume from 207%
to
tet to find the spots for an*isocline, we hate first to constrngt a
stability body plat? It is better to leave out erections (xo that the form Mag,
VOL. Il.



--- Page 33 ---
18 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS,
'
have no serious discontinuities), for purposes of comparison of forms indog
ently of the viriations in deck erections. A series of parallel ai Ne
is then drawn at the required angle 6 for the isocline
At each waterplane we have to find—
(1) @he displacoment up to that waterline,
(2)€Phe moment of the dixplcement about wu axis perpendicular to
the waterplanes,
(3) The moment of sthe displacement about an axié ‘parallel to the
waterplanes. .
This is most*conveniently done by the integrator, If possible, for working
the integratay, the most suitable axis per dicular to the waterline is taken
through the keel. The axis parallel to the waterplane is taken at any con-
venient distance from the body plant

Positions for axes are as shown wN I4. KK, is through the keel and
is perpendicular to the waterplanes, LT is outside the bogy planand
is parallel to waterphanes.

If we divide (2) by (1) we get the position of the cere of buoyaney with

reference to the axis K “a

If we divide (3) by (1) we get the position of the centre of buoyaney wiih

reference to the axis 1. Ly.

‘Phe actual position of C.B.
isocline obtained,

Obtaining as
each wate
angle of he

"These operations for obtaining an isocline can he performed in the
following orde:

(1) Draw a series of waterphines at 6°.

(2) Go over all the sections with the int

the aves being fixed s
Ist (it) perpendicular to the waterlines as at K Ky.
nid (6) parallel ” ; 4 bly.
et off the readings of the area and moment wheels for
on it base representing the length. (There
one curve of areas and two curves of moments.)
(4) Find the areas of () thé area cure
. 11) the moment ahont K K, curves,
und le) OM LLy

(5) Apply thgscales of thaintegrator ad aSivlug td get the true volume

and the true moment.

(6) Divide the moment results by the corresponding volume results,

(7) Set off the distences thus obtained for each waterline with reference

to the axes K Kyand LL, and we get the values gf the offsets of
B, which enable ws fo place the spots for.the iseclin®,

Note.—This series of operations cau be simplitied by first spacing they
fody play sections according to Tchebycheft’s Rules, say, for instancet’
according to th¢ three ordinate rule ns ‘used for disflavement table in Vol. L,
oppositt page 82, Theelabour of plotting the integrator reading& for each:
section isetheroby saved, as the section spaozd ,in this qanner can be traced
over in succession by the integrator, heginying at the keél and continuing,
without stopping, to the end. It is only necessury to note the final readings

he aren and moment wheels, There will be only oné volume and two

therefore be fixed, and tihes.a spot in the

calculations for
cline for all displicements*for a constant

of these spots
plane, we can yet the

rato up to each waterline,

cachesection
thus for each wl



--- Page 34 ---
STABILITY OF FLOATING BODIES GENERALLY. 19

montent reafings to record for cach waterline, and we cap now get the
igocline by performing the operations (6) and (7) above described.
To find the spot in an Isorline corresponding to a given Waterplanes—
Let K K, and LL, be the two axes as befgre, und let 1H be the isocline
- obtained by setting olf the ordinates obtained as described aboye. On a.
base line OA as shown, parallel to KK, set off as horizontal ordinates the
displacements jv fo each waterplie. ‘These form the curve OM, Thus
at the waterline w/ the displacement is'am. ©
Let 2, ba the position on the isocline of the centre of bupyancy corre-
sponding to waterline w/, which 1s assumed to be one for which the integrator
readings have been ot off along am the distance ab equal toa, by,
the distance of 4, from OA, Doing this for all the waterplahes used for
integrating we can yet a new curve YB, from which can be obtained at
any waterplane the distance of the editre of buoyaney in the isocline from

Fie. 14,

ho dine OA, means 1 determine the spot giving the position
of centre of lgioynuey corresponding’ to amy Waterline parallel to LL.
To determine the Isovol Curves.—The yore egastruction leads at
once to the determination of the isovol . . .
If we have a series of*isockines, awd kiww the pging on each which
» Corresponds to a ch nt displacement which is'a fixed percentage
of the total bulk, we &an draw a curve through these points, ‘This curve will
be the isovol for that displacement, It is conveniens, therefore, to find first
the waterlines giving certain percentages of dispjacement, say from 207% up
to 80%. ‘Thijs is casily done by dividing the ordinate AM (fig. 14) into these
ercentae proportions. The vertical lines through these points cut the
~ Gisplacoment curyes at the required waterlines, and the ordinates of the BB,
curve at thgse waterlines five the distances out from O A of tile gorresponding
“positions 8f C.B, on the isocline. Doing this for these percentages’ for the
different angles of inc\jngtign we get spots on the isovol curves. &
Teoglines are Usually drawn gor tye following angles of inclination, 15°,
30°, 49%, 60°, 75°,,and 90°. ‘The isovoly can then Be found by the above
method at 20%, 30%, 407, 50%, 607, 70%, 80%, of total volume.



--- Page 35 ---
20

THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

Angles of Inclination 6,
@ oe
%

Fre, 15,

Fie. 16.


--- Page 36 ---
STABILITY OF BLOATING BODIES GENERALLY. aL

3 is sometimes better to make a combined diagram giving the curves
for each angle of inclination. °

For each angle of inclination wo have three curves (fig, 1
respectively — .

giving

@) Displicem
(2) Curve of K
(3) Curve of Q

(See fig 16.)
ss (do)

The values of these (displacement, K N,
waterline, aufl are set off in tery x of the waterline interval, ¢

Having « series of curves for the ition 8, By Oy By etc.,
we can draw the vertical lines at the required percentages of difplacoment for
which the isovols are required.

Where these vertical lines ent fie displacement cui
positions of the waterlnes cuttims off the required volumes,
the values @ KN and QB for t ‘alues fix the
positions of the centre of havyaney of constant volume in the isoclines, and
hence yive points throuvh ‘rich the isovol curve for each percentage of
displacement chn be dzxw a, .

’ .
and QB) are obtained for cach

+ we got the
nd we also get



--- Page 37 ---
CHAPTER III.

DETERMINATION OF CQORDINATES OF B FOR A
GIVEN FORM FROM & SIMILAR FORM OF DIF-
FERENT DIMENSIONS.

Ir iy sometimes useful to obtain the locus of centre of ‘buoyancy ot a known
form of one set of dimensions from that of-a similar form of @ifferent dimen-
sions. If all the measurements defining a form are altered in ‘the safae
proportion the coordinates of the centres of buoyancy will he gimilarly altered,
Int if the length, breadth, and depth measurements are al'ertd respeetively
in different. proportions, the ch in the coordinates of the centres of
buoyimey are not 50 sho to determine, The following suple analysis
enables us to obtain these :

Suppose we have a form whose priueipal dimensions are 1.BD, and a new
form is evolved by altering all the length, breadth, and depth measurements
respectively in proportions such that 1, B,, and D, are the uew principal
dimensions.

. a Som ah . L,
The ratio of length dimensign aiteration will be |“!

B
” breadth ” ~ RB
«depth, m

For transverse inclinations the ‘ation in lengtl will produce no effect,

on the Ieeus of B+
Let the breadth and dlpth be" repre rc

A, O (fig. 17). Referring thefa to

the coordinates of a point P in 4.0

yw the vertical height of P,

the horizontal distinee from ¥ OX,

w the longitudinal or foe: daft distance from ZOY. &

‘The coordinates of a corresponding point 1 in A, O ato therfore
Bi
axl

cd in,scetion-as shown at AO and
S04 OY, OX as shown, we see that

—

yx

ox

22


--- Page 38 ---
DETERMINATION OF COORDINATES OF B FOR A GIVEN FORM. 23

At P tha volume of an clement = dr.dy.d: = BV.

At P the moment of an clement about 0% = y.dady.de= 8M,

Applying thisormula to a corresponding element at P, in A, 0 we havo,
by substizating the coordinates given above for P,, the volume 6f an elemtnt

at P, BD, drdy.de=8¥,, the moment of ap element about,0Z at Py

=D BDL,
D7 EDL ‘
. D, BDyLy [, . .
ta [pete d: b, /aM
“bp Tev- a
ly
Zz
x,

So that the alteration in a given form of the length and breadth dimensions
alone do not affect Y, the height of the U.B. Only the alteration in depth
affects the height of C3.

Similarly, the AMterutitn of length and depth alone do not affect Z, the
lateral position of C.B,

The total effect on G1, of a change ao length, breadth, and*depth sry
thereforé be seen to be for Y in proportion, to the value py ! and for Bto B°

* Suppose tha’ thd watdrpltue’of a form is inclined oe to the hofizontal, and
that xe enlarge all the breadth*and depth dimensions, B and D being for the
original form, aad B, and D, for the enlarged form.


--- Page 39 ---
24 THE DESIGNSAND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

In fig. 18, WK I. represents a section of the original form ip which WL
is the waterpleic inclined at 6° to the horizontal OF, ‘The dotted figure
W,K,1, represents the corresponding section of the enlarged form. For
clearness Iet*the sections be so placed that the waterlines WL and W, L,
intersect in O at the centre‘liner ‘The inclination of W, Ly to the ‘horizontal
is 8,, und it is desired to fing the relation hetweeu 6 and 6,.

If we lake a point P in WL we ean yet the correspouding point P, in the

enlarged form hy the method shown above, and the line OP, will be the
waterline of enlarged form. ‘Thus in the figure

PR = Tee.

OF, = we OF,

‘Thes.elation between the angles of inclination of corresponding water-
planes is expresséd by the above ‘ormula or ‘

“tan 6D, B

tan 6D BY

Pye above cousideration applies equally to any plane east 1 parallel to


--- Page 40 ---
. ° :
DETERMINATION OF COORDINATES OF B FOR A GIVEN FORM, 2t

the floating awaterplane ; and therefore if we have for a given form a series 0
Naterplanes, we can at once get the angles of inclination of the eorrespouding
Waterplanes for tny enlarged form of different dimensions. The actue

Position of the corresponding waterplane is got by sotting up KO nko, a

in Bg. 19, and 1 inclined 6, the hori
zontal, 8, beings civ

awing a straight lin’ throug 0,
en by

tan 6, = i i tan 8.

1
Tf we have an isovol of a form of known dimensions, we

Fro. 19. ©

mine the corresponding isovol {dr the same forr’, with the length? breadth,
and depth nicasureinents réspeefjvely. The gue is trae of an isocline,

Standardising.—We have seen how to find the edtresponding points in
‘7. form similar to a given one, aud also how to find the corresponding angles
of inclination of the waterphines.

Ratjo of breadths

» depths

angles ==" _ BD,
eS tan 67 B,D

Ir we' refer the resnlts of fa given form to a similar form of standard
dimensions, we-tiereby standardise those results. ‘That is, that whigver


--- Page 41 ---
w® ‘THE DESIGN "AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS.

the dimensions of the forms we have been working upon may have been, if ©
we plot the resifits as for the same forms to standard dimensions, we are then
able to compare the results of different forms directly with tach other, what:

evel may have Leen the absolute dimensions of the forms for which the results
have been obtained, . .

The stqfadard form chose (for corfvenience) is one in which

br the half-breadth

‘Therefore in fhe formule above,

the ratio of \ ath =

oy depth *

Band 1 being m mel

tan 6,_ 0
tan > 21"

‘

Standardisiny an Isucline-—Let 1H (lig. 20) be the isocline of a given
form of dimensions L, Bywnd 1), and let the angle of inclination of the isocline
be 6 We can plot the fori to standard dimensions from the ratios of dimen-
sions. This is shown dotted. Hy the spot corresbondinlg to Hy is obtained
frem OH: OH, : D:D.

"The anglo which the tangent at 1 makes with teshorizontal is 8 The
tangent gt will make 4 such that

tan 6,

1 @x',

the spot corresponding to J, is found.


--- Page 42 ---
DETERMINATION OF COORDINATES OF B FOR A GIVEN FORM. 27

Take amy other point P whose coordinates are. and g ip inches on the
isooline. ‘Then the coordinates of the corresponding ‘pint P, on the
standardised isoctine are

129 and yx .
Sy ali

J, can also be found in this way, so that we ed plot. the standardfsed isocline
from H, to 1,"
In order always to obtain isovols and isoclinés of forms of standard dimen-
sions at thersame percentages of displacements and angles of ivelination, it is
more convenient to draw the waterlines on the actual form at angles correspond-
ing to 15°, 30°, 45°, 60", andard ft These eqn he obtained
directly by substituting the above values in succession for 8, in the formula

fi
a

tan 6, ta 6.
DISPLACEMENT.
2°" Whe, 9% , 80% F

DRAFT*

Fie, 2.

The values of @ obtained ares those tor whieh wa
in the actuil form.

When the results are set off on « stazndardived f, rm, as reviously-oxplained,
they will then be fr isovoly at 207%, 107, 80%, 80 / of the total displacement,
and for isoclines for 15°, 30°, 49, 60°, and 73" inelinatien:

= Tf all results for every form are so plotted, the curves so obtained will be
directly comparable with each other, and will show directly the effect upon
the isoclines and isovols of difference of form,

It is sometimes couvgnient to be able to extry out the standardising of
stability eifrves direct from curves of KN, or “cross curves” as they are
sometimes called, oe

To dq this, first*make a complete cyrve OF of displacement in the.
uprightsig. 21. Draw the locus of eentre, of buoyancy 04 (fig. 21)-by taking
at a series of draughts, such as JA, the value of

. ards OBD in sq, inches
AB in inches



--- Page 43 ---
28 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF SHIPS

This value AC, plotted at the corresponding draught, gives the height of B
above the draught datum line when the vessel is floating at a draught OA,
and the curvy 04 is obtained.

Divide the line EV, representing the total displycment, by .points at
207, 30% 1017, 50%, GOY, 7074, andd0Y, of the length EF from E; these
poiuts will represent corresponding perventages of total displacement. The
heights of the C.B.'s for thege displacements can be got frota the curve 06
by drawing at any porcentag of displacement, say 20%, « vertical, wnt where
it cuts the curve OF drawing « horizontal line eutting the curve Ob, The
ordinate at this line will be the height above the draught datum Tine of the
C.B. correspop ling to 20% displacement.

Describe i (st: dised) » of LOinch side (fi
the half-breadth tidship section of Uns

22), in which place
sel, using the following seule

80%}
60%:
40%

20%:

Horiontal seale

(i)

Vertical .
ya a
"Ds (i)

«ly, gre the coordinates m mahes Sf paper of « point on the
standardised seetion, and or and y are the coordinates in inches of paper of the.
corresponding point on the ord section; Band 1) the moulded breadth
and depth respectively of the ship in feet; and n= the scale to which the

where

ue
ordinary section is araxn (2 =l toot)
i

# Using the vertical seale (ii), mfirk off the K B's on fig.
pereentnge of diglneement a found in fg. 21

Takeguow she curves pf KN; yometimes called Cross Curves dt Stability

(fig. 23), for the vessel * and set, uf the different t poreentages of displacement.

ul

at the different ,

* In view of standardising stability curves, jf is alvisable, when preparing JN curves
for the ordinary stability calculations, to take the ICN’s for displacements ranging froth 20%
te S0H ofthe intal displacement.


--- Page 44 ---
.
DETERMINATION OF CODRDINATES OF B FOR A GIVEN FORM. 29

Set off horizontal lines (see fig. 23) KB sin C distant from the base, where

C has’ the values,15°, 30°, 45°, 60", and 75°, and KB is the distance of the
centre of buoyancy above the datum line for draft,

KB | sm 5° _ |

2% ey 40% 80% ‘80%
Fre. 23.

Since BR=K N—KB sin © we have now a simple method of measuring
BR at displacements 20%, 30%, ete,, and angles of heel 15°, 30°, ete,

“RB sinc
Fie, 24.

* Plot curve oP BR on‘ basy of radians (fig. 25). Integrate these curves

and We got the (Zotted) enrves of Ili, as ER [BR.26, See p. 10.


--- Page 45 ---
30 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION DF SHIPS,

Next find the angles @ on the ordinary section wi

‘hich will correspond to the
angles 1!

30°ctc,, on the standardized soction from the formula

tan 8, tan 6
ca

Set off thf'angles so found on fig

25, then BR and BYR ean be measured

CORRESPONDS CORRESPONDS . .
To, To ¢
1° 60°
RADIANS
Vie. 25,

‘or displacements 20°
ate,

» 807% ete and angles correspoudidy to 15°, 80°,

an Soe i
fi nes 2 and ive which correspond, on the standardised

T

ection, to HR and 1, Ron the original section, procevd as follow:
Fig. 26 shows the ordinary sectign, and fig. 27 the standardised section.

from (i) and (ii), p. 28,

‘ oe ape(y’
nd g

= BRn20

B+ (4D® ~ BY) sin? a.”


--- Page 46 ---
DETERMINATION Of COORDINATES OF B FOR A GIVEN FORM. 81

a, has the valuos 15°, 80°, ete, ‘and on substituting in this equation the cor.
responding values of BR from (iii) we get the values of b> for the standardised

section The equation for 4, is of the same form with BYR substituted Jor
BR and (90° - a,) for a, v a)
er |

4 (4D? — BY) sin? (90° —a,)"
.

brs Ptna09/)

Having’the yalues of brand hy we ean now plot. the cur
of B, vir, the ixovols and isoclines, on the stanlundiseal forme

es giving the loci



--- Page 47 ---
CHAPTER IV.
GEOMETRICAL PROPERTIES OF ISOVOLS, ETC.

‘Tug curve of flotation has been defined as the locus of C.C.’s of Wwaterplane
cutting off constant volume for one direction of inclivg.tion, ‘This is also
called a Flotavol Curve, The locus of all flotavol curves lias heen called the
Flotavol Surface. * my -

Fu

Leclert's Formula jor the Rains of Curvatury of, the Plotavol.—F in fig. 28
is the centre of curvature of a flotavol curvesy is The radiu’ of querature B
and B, are C.B.s at yolames V and V+ UV and are at heights 4 and %
ely. Mand M, and p and p, are corresponding metaceutric quantities.



--- Page 48 ---
a
GEOMETRICAL PROPERTIES oF TSOVOLS, ETC, » 8k

“ Taking moments about AD of the volume ¥

acting at M, aud the volume
4V acting at F, we have

V+ (r4 Fada aay, ()

__By the principle of ants thie sonst be equal to the mom:nt about

AD Of V+ dV (noting at M,); or

VHA Hd - (i)
Equatings (i) and (ii) we got

pV rdV4 (@ :

VN = aN tmdVdyVaavy, (ii)

Taking momeuts about A D of dV

Ting at C snd (V-+dV) acting at By
we have, |

(a0 Ou =WKV +0),

equation (iii)

Decomen .
rVerdVep adv) - (iv)
Now we hk sgthat
1
pry
Teal
and ye

Substituting these values for p and py in (iv) we get
l+ndV=T4dl,

whenee pa fl >

=a - (vy)
Another expression for the radius of curvature of the flotavol may be
srived Ts follows: —

»-!
poy
. dp idl ot
. WV vy
a
WT do
Wy ay
_ dp
., teetvde
ich is know as “ Leclert’s formula.” :

Tt may be noticed thut, in the case of a parubolic prism, floating with axig
“val and vertéx dowherards, for any inclination $, p is independent of V
‘iver by p=2a 9, where 2a is equal to che semi latus-recsuin of

dp

© Thus, iy thisgay «pp since % — 0, ;

Werties of the Isoctite. ict 11 be thd isocine of a vessel
“3 the vertfeal at an angle 6 (fig. 29),



--- Page 49 ---
34. THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTIGN OF SHIPS.

Let X X be any vertical line,
Let B he the position of the centre of buoyancy corresponding to the

waterline w/ which cuts off a volume V.

Fia, 29,
Let 1, fy be a waterline pavallel, and very close to ml, 80 #
volume ¢at off is Let y be thee egntre, of gravity’ of fig. 28
detween w? and ih. Let y be listart from X'X ‘ang Tel® 3
distant 4 from XX. We can find the position of B, egrespondin Osa
lume V +dV.



--- Page 50 ---
GROMETRICAL PROPERTIES OF ISOVOLS, ETO. 35

Let B, be*distant 2+dh from XX. Then, taking momoyts about XX
we have
Vib tdVirw (V +dV).(h+ dh),
which, on naglecting qugntities of the second omy of infiuitesimals, becomes

dN = hd Vdh,

dh .
here
neve . . @
Clearly thé point B, will lie «the line B, and (\'¢dV).RB, 4dV.gB= 0 ;
wba
ba, en,
1 Veal ‘

In the limit BB, becouies zero when dV is infinitely small, and then the
tangent to the isocline at B will bg By and will pass through’ the centre of
gravity of th® -orrespondiig phe of flotation

DISPLACEMENT I,
: Fie, 30,
.

If we plot® eurve ff values of A in terms of Vy we have a curve from
which may be derived what is ¢: OI NW passes through
K, the keel, it will Ie a cig or a known position of
once obtined.
cross curve giving valtes of Jam

d from a line

such as XX in fig. 29.
Let P be the point 4, Vo Draw the tungent ge Py meeting the zero
ordinate of displace gut in K. Draw PM parallel to OX. Let K PM =a,

. dh
Then a =e
+ 8
= PM tan a= wih

or


